The workplace influences the safety, health, and productivity of workers at multiple levels. To protect and promote total worker health, smart hardware, and software tools have emerged for the identification, elimination, substitution, and control of occupational hazards. Wearable devices enable constant monitoring of individual workers and the environment, whereas connected worker solutions provide contextual information and decision support. Here, the recent trends in commercial workplace technologies to monitor and manage occupational risks, injuries, accidents, and diseases are reviewed. Workplace safety wearables for safe lifting, ergonomics, hazard identification, sleep monitoring, fatigue management, and heat and cold stress are discussed. Examples of workplace productivity wearables for asset tracking, augmented reality, gesture and motion control, brain wave sensing, and work stress management are given. Workplace health wearables designed for work-related musculoskeletal disorders, functional movement disorders, respiratory hazards, cardiovascular health, outdoor sun exposure, and continuous glucose monitoring are shown. Connected worker platforms are discussed with information about the architecture, system modules, intelligent operations, and industry applications. Predictive analytics provide contextual information about occupational safety risks, resource allocation, equipment failure, and predictive maintenance. Altogether, these examples highlight the ground-level benefits of real-time visibility about frontline workers, work environment, distributed assets, workforce efficiency, and safety compliance.
Worker safety is paramount in the steel manufacturing industry, particularly considering the prevalent hazards such as caught-in/between incidents, struck-by accidents, fire, heat stress, slips, trips, and falls, in the work environment. Traditional hazard identification methods which are predominantly manual and reliant on safety personnel observation, are weakened by subjectivity and a high propensity for human error. To address this critical issue, this paper presents a potential approach to bolster steel mills' safety management by integrating wearable sensing devices (WSDs) and advanced computer vision technologies (CVT). This study delves into the synergistic application of these technologies, proposing a conceptual framework that harmonizes WSDs with computer vision. This framework is aimed at implementing a proactive and effective safety management system. The paper outlines the methodology for integrating these technologies and characterizes the specific safety hazards that this integration targets. The expected outcome of this research is a potential shift in safety protocols in steel mills, characterized by a notable reduction in risks and a paradigm shift in hazard management, primarily attributed to the minimization of human error, and enhanced real-time monitoring capabilities. This paper not only contributes to industrial safety literature but also offers insight into the application of sensing technologies and AI in high-risk environments. © 2024 by the Association for Iron & Steel Technology.
In the midst of the Industry 4.0 revolution, there is an increasing number of new technological advances that promise to optimize productivity, and with the new Industry 5.0 proposal centered on the human being, an improvement in people’s well-being is expected. Derived from this situation, it is pertinent to ask the question of whether these new technologies help or could help in the improvement of worker Occupational Safety and Health (OSH). Firstly, a search was carried out in the SCOPUS and WEB of SCIENCE bibliographic databases, using a set of key words to detect the relationship between these technologies and OSH. A quantitative and qualitative analysis was carried out on the selected articles, looking for whether these technologies favors OSH and in which area they have or will have a greater application. According to this study, it is possible to appreciate that the current interest in these technologies is more focused on risk assessment, and that the two most relevant technologies for OSH are Wearables and Artificial Intelligence. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2024.
Objectives This study aims to predict the risk of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) through a back-propagation neural network (BPNN) model. It provides an early, simple and accurate prediction method for NIHL. Design Population based, a cross sectional study. Setting Han, China. Participants This study selected 3266 Han male workers from three automobile manufacturing industries. Primary outcome measures Information including personal life habits, occupational health test information and occupational exposure history were collected and predictive factors of NIHL were screened from these workers. BPNN and logistic regression models were constructed using these predictors. Results The input variables of BPNN model were 20, 16 and 21 important factors screened by univariate, stepwise and lasso-logistic regression. When the BPNN model was applied to the test set, it was found to have a sensitivity (TPR) of 83.33%, a specificity (TNR) of 85.92%, an accuracy (ACC) of 85.51%, a positive predictive value (PPV) of 52.85%, a negative predictive value of 96.46% and area under the receiver operating curve (AUC) is: 0.926 (95% CI: 0.891 to 0.961), which demonstrated the better overall properties than univariate-logistic regression modelling (AUC: 0.715) (95% CI: 0.652 to 0.777). The BPNN model has better predictive performance against NIHL than the stepwise-logistic and lasso-logistic regression model in terms of TPR, TNR, ACC, PPV and NPV (p<0.05); the area under the receiver operating characteristics curve of NIHL is also higher than that of the stepwise and lasso-logistic regression model (p<0.05). It was a relatively important factor in NIHL to find cumulative noise exposure, auditory system symptoms, age, listening to music or watching video with headphones, exposure to high temperature and noise exposure time in the trained BPNN model. Conclusions The BPNN model was a valuable tool in dealing with the occupational risk prediction problem of NIHL. It can be used to predict the risk of an individual NIHL.  © 2024 Authors.
Industry 5.0 promotes the development of human-centered industrial operations fueled by a fresh wave of disruptive technologies that encourage synergistic human-machine integration. Its focus is on understanding how human cognition contributes to a more secure and harmonious coexistence between humans and machines in industrial scenarios, employing solutions that prioritize fundamental worker demands while preserving or enhancing industrial productivity. In this context, the ability to assess fatigue objectively is crucial for occupational health and safety because it can reduce cognitive and motor function, ultimately lowering productivity and raising the risk of harm to human operators. To this end, wearable systems provide a promising solution for continuous, non-intrusive, and long-term monitoring of biological signals for fatigue detection. However, the adoption of these devices presents unique challenges, such as inter-individual variability that renders traditional one-size-fits-all machine learning models unsuitable. This paper provides an analysis of the current state-of-the-art for wearable device monitoring, including ongoing issues and current knowledge gaps. In addition, an experimental analysis is presented, employing a pattern discovery pipeline based on unsupervised learning on a real-world dataset. Our analysis provides experimental evidence of the limitations of one of the classical approaches to fatigue assessment, thus highlighting the need for more advanced models.  © 2023 IEEE.
Effective risk management is critical in the gas and petroleum industry, ensuring worker safety, environmental protection, and business continuity. To improve risk management, an artificial intelligence-based system has been proposed that can identify objects and situations of risk from camera images. The system includes an alert algorithm and report generation for auditing, increasing accuracy and efficiency in oil industry operations. In addition, a no-code system has been developed, which can be customized by inserting new risk events using tools such as creating polygons and allowed and prohibited logic, and text searches to find new items in captured scenes. The system was trained by defining the objects and events to be identified, including the use of personal protective equipment, eyewash stations, handrails, fire extinguishers, prohibited areas, and vehicles traveling above the permitted speed limit. A database was created, supplemented by images from the YOLO convolutional neural network architecture, version 7, for the development of machine learning. The model was then trained, tested, and validated. The software and no-code platform were subsequently developed for the study scenario. The proposed system is scalable, versatile, and has a global territorial scope, making it suitable for various industrial monitoring situations. It can be replicated for multiple plants and customized by adding new events as required. The platform can work remotely without local servers and offers access management by registered users. The proposed system is unique, with integrated functionalities, such as vehicle speed detection, action, object, and equipment identification, and report and alert generation. The system reduces monitoring costs, is not dependent on human supervision, and can detect deviations made by employees, thus enhancing problem resolution and prevention. Finally, pre-installed cameras can be used, and the system offers customization possibilities for various industrial areas. © 2023, Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Introduction: Fatal fall from height accidents, especially on construction sites, persist, underscoring the importance of monitoring and managing worker behaviors to enhance safety. Deep learning showed the possibility of substituting the manual work of safety managers. However, applying detection results to determine compliance with safety regulations has limitations. Method: This study estimated the actual working height depending on the height of the object detection bounding box by specifying the consistent hinge part as a target marker based on ladder manufacturing regulations. Furthermore, an attempt was made to improve the separation between workers, coworkers, and persons unconnected to ladder activities by applying an optimized loss function alongside an attention mechanism. Results: The experimental results showed that an average precision increased from 87.60% to 90.44%. The performance of the monitoring unsafe behavior of ladder worker following the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA) guide was evaluated by 91.40 F1-Score, which accumulated sorted according to the working height. Conclusions: Experimental results show the feasibility of the real-time automate safety monitoring in ladder work. Practical Applications: By linking the estimated working height and deep learning multi-detection results to established safety regulations, the proposed method shows the potential to automatically monitoring unsafe behaviors in construction site. © 2023 The Author(s)
While artificial intelligence adoption has increased in several industries and sectors, Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) still resists adopting disruptive AI innovations in Brazil. This paper aims to present a comparative investigation between the willingness to adopt cognitive systems (CS) andlow expert systems (ES) for OHS professionals in the Brazilian industry for risk assessment management to understand potential adoption behavior. The study adopts a survey based on the UTAUT (Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology) framework, with 88 OHS professionals from several states of Brazil using a platform for OHS risk assessment. Users were presented with two vignettes, one testing willingness to adopt a Low Expert System for OHS and the other testing willingness to adopt a Cognitive System for OHS. Results were analyzed through Structural Equation Modeling in SmartPLS software and statistical test comparisonof the two scenarios. Evidence that the UTAUT score for ES is statistically significantly higher than CS supports that this sample of Industry Professionals, in this context, has less intention to adopt AI Technologies for OHS despite the discussion on the theme. Several factors explain this behavior, from the perception of lack of control, legislation, and other issues that constitute barriers to AI adoption in OHS. Results support the need to advance into Human-Centered AI approaches to design AI-based solutions for the OHS Industry andreinforce UTAUT as an essential theoretical framework for supporting AI studies. We aim to research a gap as a novel research approach by proposing to clearly understand factors to AI adoption for OHS in the industry in Brazil, adopting UTAUT. The industrial context and B2B solution also provide new insights concerning the UTAUT construct's behavior. Moreover, the study offers unique contributions concerningHuman-Centered AI and the fear of adopting AI solutions: Theoretical Implications - Willingness of AI adoption increases/decreases when user; Managerial Implications - UTAUT can reduce uncertainty on AI software development; few studies address this research lacune. ©2023 IEEE.
The construction industry struggles with safety risk assessment complexities due to evolving work environments, diverse labor forces, time constraints, regulatory intricacies, and inconsistent practices. While previous studies have highlighted the potential of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in automating processes and enhancing safety assessment, a gap exists in the convergence between human analysts and language AI models. Therefore, this study assesses the alignment in identifying risk factors by human analysts and a Language Model (LM) in Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) accident reports. Furthermore, it: 1) categorizes error types, 2) establishes an acceptance threshold for LM-generated responses, and 3) evaluates inter-rater reliability in construction accident content analysis. The test results reveal significant convergence between human and machine responses and identify potential hallucination effects in generative AI, thus paving the way for improved safety risk assessments within the construction industry. © 2024 ISARC. All Rights Reserved.
Preventing work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs) is crucial in reducing their impact on individuals and society. However, the existing mainstream 2D image-based approach is insufficient in capturing the complex 3D movements and postures involved in many occupational tasks. To address this, an improved deep learning-based rapid entire body assessment (REBA) method has been proposed. The method takes working videos as input and automatically outputs the corresponding REBA score through 3D pose reconstruction. The proposed method achieves an average precision of 94.7% on real-world data, which is comparable to that of ergonomic experts. Furthermore, the method has the potential to be applied across a wide range of industries as it has demonstrated good generalisation in multiple scenarios. The proposed method offers a promising solution for automated and accurate risk assessment of WMSDs, with implications for various industries to ensure the safety and well-being of workers. © 2024 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs) have been the major cause of occupational injuries among construction workers. The traditional observational assessment is time-consuming and subjective, while the sensor-based postural analysis is usually associated with high setup costs and intrusiveness. This study proposed an automated ergonomic risk assessment method based on computer vision and machine learning focusing on lower body postural risks. It provided a comprehensive risk dashboard, including posture detection and rule-based extreme flexion examination. Specifically, with raw video input, the postural feature extraction module can identify skeleton coordinates frame by frame by adopting a state-of-art 3D pose estimation algorithm. In the ergonomic assessment module, the knee angles can be calculated using skeleton coordinates, and the support vector machine (SVM) classifier was trained for posture recognition. The illustration based on a real-life example demonstrated the applicability and reliability of the proposed method, with nearly 95% accuracy for posture detection. In summary, the study provided a more comprehensive and in-depth postural analysis of construction activities, which has great potential to facilitate intervention strategies for WMSD prevention with quantified evidence. © 2023 IEEE.
Workers on construction sites face numerous health and safety risks. Authorities have made numerous attempts to enhance safety management; yet incidents continue to occur, impacting both worker health and the project’s forward momentum. To that end, developing strategies to improve construction site safety management is crucial. The goal of this project is to employ computer vision and deep learning methods to create a model that can recognize construction workers, their PPE and the surrounding heavy equipment from CCTV footage. Then, the hazards can be discovered and identified based on an analysis of the imagery data and other criteria including weather conditions, and the on-site safety officer can be contacted. Our own dataset was used to train the You Only Look Once model, version 5 (YOLO-v5), which was put to use as an object detection model. The detection model’s performance in tests showed promise for fast and accurate object recognition in the field. © 2023 by the authors.
This study investigates the substantial implications of cutting-edge technology on forecasting market demand, improving safety, and human resource management (HRM). The study simplifies the candidate selection method by applying Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) models to automate application screening. The use of Arduino micro controllers in conjunction with temperature, fire, and smoke sensors increases real-time reactions to potential dangers for improving safety in resource management. Artificial neural networks (ANN) are used to forecast market demand based on data from automotive sales from 2016 to 2023. The outcomes demonstrate how effective each technique was. LSTM-driven applicant screening demonstrates the capacity to boost HRM by accelerating the recruiting process. The integration of Arduino controllers demonstrates rapid and precise risk recognition, enhancing industrial safety. When it comes to forecasting automotive sales for 2022, the ANN model, in particular, predicts market demand with astonishing precision, achieving a 100% accuracy rate. This implies that it is capable of strategic planning and resource management. These findings underscore the critical role that AI-driven systems play in improving organisational performance, security, and decision-making, as well as the revolutionary potential of AI -driven systems across a wide range of industries. By acting as a sobering reminder of the dynamic interplay that happens between industry and technology, the research lays the path for a more safe and successful future. © 2023 IEEE.
Safety is essential for workers' quality of life, which has become one of the main priorities for enterprises. Electric welders want safety precautions required during work in construction industries with safety risks, especially muscle injuries. This issue needs to be addressed by the safety officer to suggest a decrease in the risk. However, the lack of expertise and accuracy in risk assessment has produced muscle injuries. Thus, using machine learning techniques for primary prevention is cost-effective to mitigate risk assessment. This study proposes using artificial intelligence risk assessment of muscle injuries (AIRAMI) during welding tasks for electric welders. Image processing is an applied machine learning method to aid in the risk assessment of muscle injuries based on rapid entire body assessment (REBA). The five hundred electric welders' pose images were trained using OpenCV and Mediapipe. The assessment output is shown based on REBA score criteria, including five risk levels, and color icon alerts are displayed independently for each assessment. The findings show that AIRAMI can effectively and precisely evaluate the risk assessment of electric welders' muscle injuries. © 2023 Owner/Author.
The monograph "Expert assessments in decision making: risks and safety" presents studies that address the problems of expert assessments and the formation of decisions based on expert opinions in some areas of human activity. The results of decisions based on such assessments have a direct impact on safety and the risks that may follow. The problems are considered in the following aspects. An innovative approach to the formation of a list of types of forensic examinations and expert specialties. It has been established that the existing classification of forensic examinations by branches of specific examination used in their conduct is outdated and does not meet modern requirements. This creates difficulties not only for forensic experts and persons wishing to become them, but also for the court, participants in the trial and all citizens interested in obtaining a forensic expert's opinion. A discrepancy has been established between the types of forensic examination and the specialties of experts for which the qualification of a forensic expert is assigned in departmental lists. It has been proposed to unify the interdepartmental approach to the classification of forensic examinations in order to avoid errors that could lead to illegal and unfounded court decisions. The issue of unification can be resolved by developing a general approach to the classification of types and types of forensic examinations, enshrined in an interdepartmental regulatory act, which should be based on the criteria of the general theory of forensic examination. The creation of a unified list of types of forensic examinations and their corresponding expert specialties can open up ways to solve many issues facing the expert community. Taking into account the fact that at the time it is planned to provide opinions by experts in electronic form, the creation of a forensic expert's office and its integration with the Unified Judicial Information and Telecommunication System, the creation of a modern unified list by types of forensic examinations and their corresponding expert specialtiesis on the agenda. Blood cell image recognition using texture and neural networks for leukemia diagnosis. Morphological analysis of blood cell images is usually performed manually by an expert, but this method has many disadvantages, including slow analysis, low accuracy, and the results depend on the skill of the operator. This reduces the chance of a correct diagnosis in detecting acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a potentially fatal blood cancer if left untreated. The study developed and presented an automated method for identifying and classifying leukocytes using microscopic images of peripheral blood smears. The proposed neural random threshold classifier achieved a recognition rate of 98.3% when the data was divided into 80% training set and 20% test set. The proposed system can be implemented as a computational tool to detect other diseases in which blood cells undergo changes, such as Covid-19. This will eliminate the subjective factor that is invariably inherent in the case of assessment by experts, focusing only on their experience. Therefore, the system is important for conducting expert assessments in medical diagnostics, as part of a decision support system that reduces the likelihood of risks of incorrect diagnosis of diseases. Analysis of the capabilities of the Internet of Things in monitoring the physiological state and location of personnel on an offshore oil platform. The possibilities of using the Internet of Things (IoT) to ensure personnel safety on an offshore oil platform were explored. For this purpose, IoT applications and technologies for monitoring the physiological state and location of personnel are analyzed. The use of cloud technologies, big data technologies and artificial intelligence for the development of systems that allow monitoring and, if necessary, making appropriate decisions through systematic monitoring of personnel status is considered. The basis for decision making is expert assessments of deviations of real-time parameter values from the norm. Practical problems associated with the use of Internet of Things technologies in various areas of healthcare are presented. Methodological approaches to intelligent management of human factors on offshore oil and gas platforms. The problems of increasing the efficiency of managing the safety and health of shift workers in the offshore oil and gas industry through the prism of the human factor have been studied. The environmental features, hazards and risks, working and professional conditions in the offshore sector are taken into account. The concept of a person-centered approach to personnel safety and health management is proposed, which involves the inclusion of employees in the management loop as the main component of their contextual environment. This involves constant remote monitoring of vital health indicators of employees and, at the same time, parameters of the context-dependent environment of each of them, as well as an expert assessment of the deviation of these parameters from the norm. Decision support in a remote health monitoring system for shift workers on an offshore oil platform. A methodological approach to the synthesis of solutions in a geographically distributed intelligent health management system for oil workers working in the maritime industry is proposed. A functional model of the health management system for workers employed on offshore oil platforms has been developed and implemented in three stages: monitoring and assessment of health indicators and environmental parameters of each employee, as well as decision-making. These interacting operations integrate layers of a distributed intelligent healthcare management system. Appropriate approaches to implementing decision support processes are presented and one of the possible methods for assessing generated data and making decisions using fuzzy pattern recognition is described. Models of a fuzzy ideal image and a fuzzy real image of the employee's health state have been developed and an algorithm for expert assessment of the deviation of the formed medical indicators from the norm is described. Expert assessment of engineering and planning solutions to improve the safety of vulnerable road users in Ukraine. The study is devoted to the analysis of the main methodological provisions for conducting an expert assessment (audit) of engineering and planning solutions, organizational and management measures to ensure road safety (RS) for vulnerable road users. The results of the study are presented in the form of the authors' opinions on the following problems (areas of activity) in the field of road safety, which are subject to expert assessment: - the real level of road accidents among the main categories of vulnerable road users in Ukraine; - modern scientific, methodological and engineering planning approaches to the formation of individual elements of an effective and safe transport infrastructure, as well as progressive traffic management systems (TS); - the possibilities and feasibility of implementing engineering and planning solutions, organizational and management measures to improve road safety (RS). © Authors 2023. All rights reserved.
Increasingly, information technology facilitates the storage and management of data useful for risk analysis and event prediction. Studies on data extraction related to occupational health and safety are increasingly available; however, due to its variability, the construction sector warrants special attention. This review is conducted under the research programs of the National Institute for Occupational Accident Insurance (Inail). Objectives: The research question focuses on identifying which data mining (DM) methods, among supervised, unsupervised, and others, are most appropriate for certain investigation objectives, types, and sources of data, as defined by the authors. Methods: Scopus and ProQuest were the main sources from which we extracted studies in the field of construction, published between 2014 and 2023. The eligibility criteria applied in the selection of studies were based on the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA). For exploratory purposes, we applied hierarchical clustering, while for in-depth analysis, we used principal component analysis (PCA) and meta-analysis. Results: The search strategy based on the PRISMA eligibility criteria provided us with 63 out of 2234 potential articles, 206 observations, 89 methodologies, 4 survey purposes, 3 data sources, 7 data types, and 3 resource types. Cluster analysis and PCA organized the information included in the paper dataset into two dimensions and labels: “supervised methods, institutional dataset, and predictive and classificatory purposes” (correlation 0.97–8.18 × 10−1; p-value 7.67 × 10−55–1.28 × 10−22) and the second, Dim2 “not-supervised methods; project, simulation, literature, text data; monitoring, decision-making processes; machinery and environment” (corr. 0.84–0.47; p-value 5.79 × 10−25–-3.59 × 10−6). We answered the research question regarding which method, among supervised, unsupervised, or other, is most suitable for application to data in the construction industry. Conclusions: The meta-analysis provided an overall estimate of the better effectiveness of supervised methods (Odds Ratio = 0.71, Confidence Interval 0.53–0.96) compared to not-supervised methods. © 2024 by the authors.
Maintaining health and safety is essential for workers’ quality of life, and thus, this has become one of the main priorities for industrial enterprises. Electric welders want required safety precautions to be implemented during work in industries with safety risks, especially muscle injuries. This challenge needs to be addressed by the safety officer, who should suggest a way to decrease the risk for workers. However, traditional assessment based on human evaluation and the need for expertise and accuracy in risk assessment have produced muscle injuries. Thus, using artificial intelligence (AI) technology to mitigate risk assessment is cost-effective and accurate. This study proposed a risk assessment system for muscle injuries (RASMI) with AI technology to assess electric welder postures with rapid entire body assessment (REBA) standards to identify the cause of muscle injuries and to warn electric welders when their pose may be a risk. The findings showed that the system can effectively and precisely evaluate the risk assessment of electric welders’ muscle injuries. Additional results showed that they perceive using AI technology to enhance wellness positively in terms of working with warnings for posture adjustment or behavior that can significantly affect an operator’s long-term health and well-being. © 2024 by the authors of this article. Published under CC-BY.
This paper describes an integrated monitoring system designed for individualized environmental risk assessment and management in the workplace. The system incorporates monitoring devices that measure dust, noise, ultraviolet radiation, illuminance, temperature, humidity, and flammable gases. Comprising monitoring devices, a server-based web application for employers, and a mobile application for workers, the system integrates the registration of workers’ health histories, such as common diseases and symptoms related to the monitored agents, and a web-based recommendation system. The recommendation system application uses classifiers to decide the risk/no risk per sensor and crosses this information with fixed rules to define recommendations. The system generates actionable alerts for companies to improve decision-making regarding professional activities and long-term safety planning by analyzing health information through fixed rules and exposure data through machine learning algorithms. As the system must handle sensitive data, data privacy is addressed in communication and data storage. The study provides test results that evaluate the performance of different machine learning models in building an effective recommendation system. Since it was not possible to find public datasets with all the sensor data needed to train artificial intelligence models, it was necessary to build a data generator for this work. By proposing an approach that focuses on individualized environmental risk assessment and management, considering workers’ health histories, this work is expected to contribute to enhancing occupational safety through computational technologies in the Industry 5.0 approach. © 2024 by the authors.
Governments, researchers, and developers emphasize creating “trustworthy AI,” defined as AI that prevents bias, ensures data privacy, and generates reliable results that perform as expected. However, in some cases problems arise not when AI is not trustworthy, technologically, but when it is. This article focuses on such problems in the food system. AI technologies facilitate the generation of masses of data that may illuminate existing food-safety and employee-safety risks. These systems may collect incidental data that could be used, or may be designed specifically, to assess and manage risks. The predictions and knowledge generated by these data and technologies may increase company liability and expense, and discourage adoption of these predictive technologies. Such problems may extend beyond the food system to other industries. Based on interviews and literature, this article discusses vulnerabilities to liability and obstacles to technology adoption that arise, arguing that “trustworthy AI” cannot be achieved through technology alone, but requires social, cultural, political, as well as technical cooperation. Implications for law and further research are also discussed. Copyright © 2023 Alexander, Smith and Ivanek.
Within the framework of Industry 5.0, human factors are essential for enhancing the work conditions and well-being of operators interacting with even more advanced and smart manufacturing systems and machines and increasing production performances. Nevertheless, cognitive ergonomics is often underestimated when implementing advanced industrial human-robot interaction. Thus, this work aims to systematically update, develop, and validate guidelines to assist non-experts in the early stages of the design of anthropocentric and collaborative assembly applications by focusing on the main features that have positively influenced workers' cognitive responses. A methodology for structured development has been proposed. The draft guidelines have been created starting from the outcomes of a systematic and extended screening of the scientific literature. Preliminary validation has been carried out with the help of researchers working in the field. Inputs on comprehensibility and relevance have been gathered to enhance the guidelines. Lastly, a survey was used to examine in depth how international experts in different branches can interpret such guidelines. In total, 108 responders were asked to qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate the guideline's comprehensibility and provide general comments or suggestions for each guideline. Based on the survey's results, the guidelines have been validated and some have been reviewed and re-written in their final form. The present work highlights that integrating human factors into the design of collaborative applications can significantly bolster manufacturing operations' resilience through inclusivity and system adaptability by enhancing worker safety, ergonomics, and wellbeing. © 2024 The Authors
The manufacturing industry relies heavily on human labour, making the health and safety of operators paramount. Emerging technologies such as Human-Cyber-Physical Systems (HCPS) and Machine Learning (ML) have the potential to transform the approach to these critical issues. In fact, such technologies enable the creation of virtual replicas of tangible systems, providing innovative solutions for assessing operator safety. In this context, this work presents a digital humanization methodology designed to comprehensively evaluate the health and safety risks associated with operator involvement in production processes. Using cutting-edge sensors, advanced machine learning algorithms, and scenario simulations, such methodology generates real-time virtual representations of the physical condition and behaviour of the operator. These representations allow the risk characterization by estimating magnitude, priority, and occurrence, thereby facilitating early detection and preventive measures against potential hazards. A case study is considered to demonstrate the practical application of the proposed framework. © 2024 The Author(s).
The protection of the mines below ground must be enhanced since catastrophes in subterranean mines are extremely major concerns these days. The problems experienced by miners operating underground include gas explosion, temperatures, etc. If any tragedy happens in mine or any miner is wounded, all the guilt immediately falls on supervisor. So there must be interaction among miners, supervisors and control station. Therefore, the goal of the proposed system is to alter a current mining safety. Helmet represents a piece of the safety equipment miner should wear when mining. The idea is for making the helmet more secure by adding network. This added system is used to sense the circumstances around the miner employed underground and all of real-time values are wirelessly current on the internet through the IoT so that control stations get to know the specific environmental circumstances in which miner employed and if any unusual events occur they are able to offer rescue as quickly as possible. The device also contains the LCD and siren to let fellow workers know when any unpleasant occurrence happens with miner. The suggested system employs multiple sensors as Gas Sensor, DHT11 Sensors, accelerometer, vibrations and IR Sensor. Here the IR sensors is employed as helmet removal sensor. And additionally in this system we utilize machine learning to analyze the employee health, Cardiovascular disease is one of the primary ailments impacting the people throughout the globe. There are various risk factors which contribute to heart disease. The combined use of logistic regression modeling with neural network gives a revolutionary strategy for forecasting the heart disease. Initially a logistic regression analysis is done to find the primary risk variables for predicting the illness. It generates the significant risk variables that are beneficial for forecasting cardiovascular disease according to statistical p-value. The threat variables those aren't taking the substantial effect are recognized besides deleted. The resulting important issues are presented as inputs to the neural network's model. © 2023 IEEE.
Introduction: Workplace accidents in the petroleum industry can cause catastrophic damage to people, property, and the environment. Earlier studies in this domain indicate that the majority of the accident report information is available in unstructured text format. Conventional techniques for the analysis of accident data are time-consuming and heavily dependent on experts’ subject knowledge, experience, and judgment. There is a need to develop a machine learning-based decision support system to analyze the vast amounts of unstructured text data that are frequently overlooked due to a lack of appropriate methodology. Method: To address this gap in the literature, we propose a hybrid methodology that uses improved text-mining techniques combined with an un-bias group decision-making framework to combine the output of objective weights (based on text mining) and subjective weights (based on expert opinion) of risk factors to prioritize them. Based on the contextual word embedding models and term frequencies, we extracted five important clusters of risk factors comprising more than 32 risk sub-factors. A heterogeneous group of experts and employees in the petroleum industry were contacted to obtain their opinions on the extracted risk factors, and the best-worst method was used to convert their opinions to weights. Conclusions and Practical Applications: The applicability of our proposed framework was tested on the data compiled from the accident data released by the petroleum industries in India. Our framework can be extended to accident data from any industry, to reduce analysis time and improve the accuracy in classifying and prioritizing risk factors. © 2024 National Safety Council and Elsevier Ltd
Occupational accidents are frequent in the construction industry, containing significant risks in the working environment. Therefore, early designation, taking preventive actions, and developing a proactive safety risk management plan are of paramount significance in managing safety issues in the construction industry. This study aims to develop a national data-driven safety management framework based on accident outcome prediction, which helps anatomize precursors of fatalities and thereby minimizing fatal accidents on construction sites. A national data set comprising 338,173 occupational accidents recorded in the construction industry across Turkey was used to develop a data-driven model. The random forest algorithm coupled with particle swarm optimization was used for the prediction and the interpretability of the proposed model was augmented through the game theory-based Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) approach. The findings showed that the proposed algorithm achieved satisfactory model performances for detecting construction workers who might face a fatality risk. The SHAP analysis results indicated that both company (such as number of past accidents and workers in the company) and worker-related (such as age, daily wage, experience, shift, and past accident of the workers) attributes were influential in identifying fatalities by detecting which workers might face fatal accidents under which conditions. A construction safety management plan was developed based on the analysis results, which can be used on construction sites to detect workers/conditions that are most susceptible to fatalities. The findings of the present research are expected to contribute to orchestrating effective safety management practices in construction sites by characterizing the root causes of severe accidents.  © 2023 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Sugar dust poses significant risks in the sugar industry, threatening workers' safety and health as well as the potential for explosions and fires. The combustibility of sugar dust arises from its small, lightweight particles that disperse easily and ignite readily. Effective management strategies are essential to ensuring a safe work environment and preventing accidents. This perspective article provides an overview of sugar dust management in the global sugar industry. Various methods are employed to collect and manage sugar dust, including dust collectors, air handling systems, and proper housekeeping procedures. Advancements like electrostatic precipitators, high-efficiency particulate air filters, and self-cleaning dust collection systems show promise for future management. Utilizing both artificial intelligence and nanotechnology can also contribute to minimizing the concentrations of sugar dust in facilities. Stringent regulations and guidelines exist to control dust explosions in the industry. Implementation of robust safety measures and training programs significantly curbs the economic and environmental toll of sugar dust explosions. The paper concludes with recommendations to address sugar dust challenges, including enhanced regulation, investment in technology and research, and improved collaboration among industry stakeholders. These measures will mitigate hazards, ensure worker well-being, and safeguard the sugar industry's operations. © 2023 The Author(s)
Safety aspects are mandatory for industrial-based shop floor workers and people handling rotating machinery. Ensuring worker safety becomes tedious and has to be monitored to avoid workers, faculty, and lives. The Industry 4.0 standard provides industrial safety and production monitoring with IoT, artificial intelligence, and cloud architectures. With the help of single-board computers and camera-based sensors optimally placed in shop floor locations, workers' safety is monitored. Raspberry Pi-based computers and Jetson nano-based computers monitor safety features such as goggles, face masks, helmets, and their performance. The computing machines are trained with deep learning TensorFlow architecture, and computational time is analyzed. The machine is trained with training data sets, and incoming images from the RaspiCam sensor are validated with the data set. The Raspberry Pi and Jetson Nano provide 19 and 6 ms computing time, and the worker’s acknowledgment is given through firebase cloud architecture. The round-trip time delay for sending an acknowledgment to workers is 16 ms. © 2023, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.
Machine learning algorithms are capable of handling complex non-linear problems related to the prediction domain, but further exploration is required for automated, semi-supervised outcome prediction of occupational accidents employing unstructured textual data. It has been demonstrated that the injury severity can be predicted from the equipment, scenario and environmental attributes in the workplace, so this paper aims to enhance text data pre-processing and optimize machine learning algorithms to create an attribute factor-based occupational accident severity prediction framework, mapping characteristic attributes to accident severity categories (i.e., casualties and property damage). The reliability validation of the prediction framework and analysis of critical attribute components are performed using the collapse accidents data in construction engineering as a case study, which is the third most serious occupational problem. The findings indicate that the dataset obtained after addressing the class imbalance issue and improving the text segmentation procedure can be utilized as a training sample to accurately predict injury severity. The accuracy of the prediction model is evaluated in three simulated scenarios, and it can reach 82%, confirming the robust performance of the prediction model based on RF machine learning. Additionally, the outcomes of the measured ranking of feature importance enable the identification of critical attributes that can credibly explain the causal relationships resulting in injury severity findings, and provide managers with accident prevention strategies to minimize occupational injuries and losses. © 2023
Arc welding is a critical process in many industries that involves the use of high heat and intense light to join metal components. However, the process also poses significant risks to welders and co-workers, such as exposure to UV/IR radiation, high temperatures, electrical hazards, toxic fumes, and noise. To minimize these risks, this research proposes the use of an autonomous AI-powered welding system that integrates various sensors and actuators to monitor and control the welding process. The system includes UV/IR radiation sensors, temperature sensors, electrical sensors, gas sensors, noise sensors, and motion sensors that collect data on the welding environment and conditions. The data is then transmitted to a microcontroller and subsequently to a computer, which uses artificial intelligence algorithms to analyze the data and make necessary adjustments to the welding process. These adjustments may include controlling the welding power source, the shielding gas flow, the noise levels, and the workstation position and orientation. The objective of this research is to assess the risks associated with close proximity arc welding and develop a sensor-based system that can effectively minimize these risks while maintaining the quality of the welding process. The study will include a risk assessment of the various hazards and their effects on welders and co-workers, as well as a detailed analysis of the performance of the AI-powered welding system. The results of this study have the potential to make a significant impact on the welding industry by reducing the risks associated with close proximity arc welding and improving the overall safety and health of welders and co-workers. The proposed system can also improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the welding process, making it more cost-effective and sustainable for industries in the long-term.  © 2023 IEEE.
Worker safety is a key concern in the construction industry. Making construction safer by reducing safety hazards is critical to sustainably developing the construction industry. Big data, the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, and other emerging information technologies are deeply integrated within the construction industry. The real-time monitoring of important physiological indicators of the physical state of construction workers is possible with the use of wearable sensing equipment and can pre-emptively give warning of safety hazards. Data mining and analysis of the monitoring data enable an assessment of the safety status of construction workers and can thus reduce potential hazards faced by construction workers on site. This study firstly reviewed the applications of common wearable devices in various industries, focusing on their use in construction safety. Then, CiteSpace 6.1 R4 software was used to visually analyze the literature data related to wearable devices in construction safety. Thirdly, a comprehensive review was conducted on the psychological state and safety evaluation methods of construction workers. Finally, several challenges and future research trends of wearable devices in the construction safety field were discussed. This paper has important theoretical value in advancing the field of construction safety risk management and improving risk control strategies. © 2023 by the authors.
Operator inattention can lead to accidents in industry, resulting in injury, death, and financial loss. To prevent this, we present a warning system that leverages artificial intelligence and augmented reality. In order to compare our warning system with the business-as-usual (safety mat) and no warning conditions, we conducted experiments with nine participants using quantitative measurements. Additionally, augmented reality warning types (auditory, visual, and audiovisual) were compared in an experiment with 30 participants. Several hypotheses were tested using subjective questionnaires: participants accept the warning system as beneficial overall (H1), participants prefer auditory warnings to visual warnings (H2), and the audiovisual system would be the most preferred warning system (H3). Participants' acceptance of the system was high, and they preferred audiovisual warnings to the other types of warnings. Participants ranked the visual warning as preferable to the auditory warning. The results can be utilized to design warning systems to reduce industrial accidents.  © 2005-2012 IEEE.
Artificial intelligence (AI)—the field of computer science that designs machines to perform tasks that typically require human intelligence—has seen rapid advances in the development of foundation systems such as large language models. In the workplace, the adoption of AI technologies can result in a broad range of hazards and risks to workers, as illustrated by the recent growth in industrial robotics and algorithmic management. Sources of risk from deployment of AI technologies across society and in the workplace have led to numerous government and private sector guidelines that propose principles governing the design and use of trustworthy and ethical AI. As AI capabilities become integrated in devices, machines, and systems across industry sectors, employers, workers, and occupational safety and health practitioners will be challenged to manage AI risks to worker health, safety, and well-being. Five risk management options are presented as ways to assure that only trustworthy and ethical AI enables workplace devices, machinery, and processes. AI technologies will play a significant role in the future of work. The occupational safety and health practice and research communities need to ensure that the promise of these new AI technologies results in benefit, not harm, to workers. © 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study leverages machine learning techniques to analyze industrial accident data from 12 manufacturing plants across 3 countries, with the objective of understanding the underlying patterns and predicting future accidents. By employing classification, clustering, and time-series forecasting methods, we aim to identify significant risk factors, characterize accident severity levels, and forecast accident trends. The classification model predicts accident severity with a focus on less severe incidents, while clustering analysis reveals distinct patterns related to industry sectors and specific risks. Time-series forecasting predicts a slight increase in accident counts, suggesting areas for proactive safety measures. Our findings contribute to the development of targeted safety interventions and policy formulation, emphasizing the need for industry-specific safety protocols. This research provides a foundational framework for predictive safety analytics, offering insights that could significantly enhance workplace safety management. © 2024 IEEE.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Health and safety hazards and risk factors in the workplace are associated with occupational CVD, though inconsistent evidence of causal associations represents a knowledge gap. The assessment of physical load on the cardiovascular system in relation to work different risk factors and occupational groups is necessary, if preventative measures for occupational CVD are to be better tailored to workers’ needs. The pertinent literature reports the use of different objective and subjective metrics to evaluate the cardiovascular load (CVL). We aimed to identify how cardiovascular stress is assessed in the workplace and to bring together related evidence-based recommendations for preventative measures. Hence, we systematically searched the Google Scholar database for corresponding publications to a) gather metrics used to assess CVL, b) summarize the related risk factors investigated, c) report the occupational groups and activities targeted in these studies, and d) compile recommendations resulting from these studies. The majority of studies reported objective measures, mostly Relative Heart Rate. The identified risk factors included work environment factors, general job features (such as the number of working hours), task-related factors and individual characteristics of the worker. Most studies focused on the industrial sector, namely, the manufacturing industry and construction were the two most frequent occupational groups, due to high exposure to risk factors. Few evidence-based recommendations were identified, though guidelines to promote safety and productivity were proposed. Our results encourage further research on CVL, occupational risk and CVD. © 2023 The Authors
Integrating artificial intelligence (AI) in the construction industry could revolutionise workplace safety and efficiency. However, this integration also carries complex socio-legal implications that require further investigation. Presently, there is a research gap in the socio-legal dimensions of AI use to enhance health and safety regulations and protocols for the construction sector in the United Kingdom, particularly in understanding how the existing legal frameworks can adapt to AI integration effectively. Comprehensive research is indispensable to identify where the existing regulations may fall short or require more specificity in addressing the unique implications introduced by AI technologies. This article aims to address the pressing socio-legal challenges surrounding the integration of AI in the UK construction industry, specifically in enhancing health and safety protocols on construction sites, through a systematic review encompassing the PRISMA protocol. The review has identified that the existing legal and regulatory framework provides a strong foundation for risk management. Still, it needs to sufficiently account for the socio-legal dimensions introduced by AI deployment and how AI may evolve in the future. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) will require standardised authorities to effectively oversee the use of AI in the UK construction industry. This will enable the HSE to collect data related to AI processes and carry out technical, empirical, and governance audits. The provision of sufficient resources and the empowerment of the HSE within the context of the construction industry are critical factors that must be taken into consideration to ensure effective oversight of AI implementation. © 2024 by the author.
Dynamic failure events have occurred in the underground coal mining industry since its inception. Recent NIOSH research has identified geochemical markers that correlate with in situ reportable dynamic event occurrence, although the causes behind this correlative relationship remain unclear. In this study, NIOSH researchers conducted machine learning analysis to examine whether a model could be constructed to assess the probability of dynamic failure occurrence based on geochemical and petrographic data. Linear regression, random forest, dimensionality reduction, and cluster analyses were applied to a catalog of dynamic failure and control data from the Pennsylvania Coal Sample Databank, cross-referenced with accident data from the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). Analyses determined that 7 of the 18 geochemical parameters that were examined had the biggest impact on model performance. Classifications based on logistic regression and random forest models attained precision values of 85.7% and 96.7%, respectively. Dimensionality reduction was used to explore patterns and groupings in the data and to search for relationships between compositional parameters. Cluster analyses were performed to determine if an algorithm could find clusters with given class memberships and to what extent misclassifications of dynamic failure status occurred. Cluster analysis using a hierarchal clustering algorithm after dimensionality reduction resulted in four clusters, with one relatively distinct dynamic failure cluster, and three clusters mostly consisting of control group members but with a small number of dynamic failure members. © 2023 by the authors.
Accidents in the workplace are critical issues that necessitate attention from environmental safety and health perspectives to enhance operational safety. The elevated rate of workplace accidents in Turkey underscores deficiencies in reliability analysis studies. Effective planning of preventive measures, considering factors such as location and timing, is pivotal in accident prevention. Sociological and regional disparities, alongside technical factors such as service type, working hours, and age, contribute significantly to accident causation. Reliability analysis studies aim to identify potential causes of accidents, enabling early detection of hazardous situations and combinations. This proactive approach allows responsible personnel to implement measures that mitigate or eliminate specific types of accidents, thereby safeguarding both lives and business assets. This study utilizes Artificial Neural Network (ANN) to forecast potential occupational accidents in the shipbuilding industry before they occur. Analyzing data from 146 occupational accidents involving ship electricians between 2012 and 2016, out of a total of 1165 occupational accidents in the industry, the study estimates potential accidents for 2017. The results demonstrate that ANN achieves high accuracy in predicting occupational accidents. © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2024.
Globally, workplace safety is a critical concern, and statistics highlight the widespread impact of occupational hazards. According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), an estimated 2.78 million work-related fatalities occur worldwide each year, with an additional 374 million non-fatal workplace injuries and illnesses. These incidents result in significant economic and social costs, emphasizing the urgent need for effective safety measures across industries. The construction sector in particular faces substantial challenges, contributing a notable share to these statistics due to the nature of its operations. As technology, including machine vision algorithms and robotics, continues to advance, there is a growing opportunity to enhance global workplace safety standards and mitigate the human toll of occupational hazards on a broader scale. This paper explores the development and evaluation of two distinct algorithms designed for the accurate detection of safety equipment on construction sites. The first algorithm leverages the Faster R-CNN architecture, employing ResNet-50 as its backbone for robust object detection. Subsequently, the results obtained from Faster R-CNN are compared with those of the second algorithm, Few-Shot Object Detection (FsDet). The selection of FsDet is motivated by its efficiency in addressing the time-intensive process of compiling datasets for network training in object recognition. The research methodology involves training and fine-tuning both algorithms to assess their performance in safety equipment detection. Comparative analysis aims to evaluate the effectiveness of novel training methods employed in the development of these machine vision algorithms. © 2024 by the authors.
Since the fourth industrial revolution, industries have become increasingly interested in human-centered technology and management. In particular, worker safety in industrial sites has become an important topic as discussions on ensuring the right to survival and corporate social responsibility have expanded. In this context, this study aims to develop a worker safety management system considering the characteristics of industrial sites. To this end, we propose a federated learning (FL) technique utilizing the convolutional neural networks and bidirectional long short-Term memory (CNN-BiLSTM) mechanism, which addresses the heterogeneous resource constraints of edge devices and ensures performance, data confidentiality, and system stability. The proposed technique uses a deep learning algorithm, CNN-BiLSTM, to detect subtle activity anomalies and contribute to predicting potentially dangerous situations. It utilizes wearable sensors to analyze workers' biometric indicators and serves to increase industrial safety and proactively prevent potential threats. This research is expected to provide a new approach to industrial safety and improve safety management at industrial sites.  © 2023 IEEE.
Safety is crucial in industrial settings, ensuring both operational continuity and the well-being of workers. Safety in industries directly contributes to several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) outlined by the United Nations. Industries, particularly in sectors like steel production, face a spectrum of risk factors spanning forging, machining, and smelting processes, emphasizing the potential for economic, financial, and human losses. Traditional safety protocols, typically reliant on human oversight, often encounter constraints such as time inefficiencies, error susceptibility, and restricted visibility. To mitigate these challenges, one promising avenue involves implementing automatic monitoring systems leveraging computer vision technology. Accordingly, this paper introduces an approach aimed at detecting unsafe behaviors, including monitoring personal protective equipment (PPE) compliance and identifying hazardous areas through distance-based segmentation, specifically Customized for steel manufacturing facilities. To accomplish the objective of the paper, we introduce a benchmark dataset sourced from the ALASHRY steel factory. Through rigorous evaluation employing various computer vision models, including YOLOv8l, RT-DeTr, Faster R-CNN, and YOLOv8l for segmentation, we evaluate the dataset's efficacy. Our experimental findings reveal that YOLOv8l surpasses other models, achieving a mean Average Precision (mAP-50) score of 0.919. Moreover, our distance-based segmentation model, Customized for detecting hazardous regions, demonstrates YOLOv8l's effectiveness with an mAP-50 score of 0.857 on the provided dataset.  © 2024 IEEE.
Occupational incidents are a major concern in steel industries due to the complex nature of job activities. Forecasting incidents caused by various activities and determining the root cause might aid in implementing appropriate interventions. Thus, the purpose of this study is to investigate the future trend and identify the pattern of contributing factors of incident occurrences. The study focuses on an integrated steel plant where different steel-making-related operations are carried out in separate units. The incident data of 45 months is used. Initially, a unit-wise trend of incidents (e.g., injury, near-miss and property damage) is forecasted using the autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model to determine the near-future incident trends and to identify the most incident-prone unit of the plant. The model is validated using six-month holdout data, and the predicted number of incidents is compared with the actual counts. The ARIMA model indicates that the safety performance of the iron making unit is found to be underperforming. In the second phase, meaningful association rules are extracted from text data using the apriori algorithm for the underperforming unit to discover the incident-causing factors. Results from text mining-based association mining suggest that bike and car-related incidents are the leading causes of injury. Similarly, gas leakage, slag spillage, and coke-oven door malfunctioning are causing near-miss incidents. The majority of property damage incidents are reported due to derailment, loading/ unloading and dashing of the dumper vehicle. Effective implementation of the study's specified rules can aid plant administration in formulating policies to improve safety performance by designing focused interventions. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
Background: Workers are often exposed to hazardous heat due to their work environment, leading to various injuries. As a result of climate change, heat-related injuries (HRIs) are becoming more problematic. This study aims to identify critical contributing factors to the severity of occupational HRIs. Methods: This study analyzed historical injury reports from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Contributing factors to the severity of HRIs were identified using text mining and model-free machine learning methods. The Multinomial Logit Model (MNL) was applied to explore the relationship between impact factors and the severity of HRIs. Results: The results indicated a higher risk of fatal HRIs among middle-aged, older, and male workers, particularly in the construction, service, manufacturing, and agriculture industries. In addition, a higher heat index, collapses, heart attacks, and fall accidents increased the severity of HRIs, while symptoms such as dehydration, dizziness, cramps, faintness, and vomiting reduced the likelihood of fatal HRIs. Conclusions: The severity of HRIs was significantly influenced by factors like workers’ age, gender, industry type, heat index, symptoms, and secondary injuries. The findings underscore the need for tailored preventive strategies and training across different worker groups to mitigate HRIs risks. © 2024 Occupational Safety and Health Research Institute
In the fireworks industry (FI), many accidents and explosions frequently happen due to human error (HE). Human factors (HFs) always play a dynamic role in the incidence of accidents in workplace environments. Preventing HE is a main challenge for safety and precautions in the FI. Clarifying the relationship between HFs can help in identifying the correlation between unsafe behaviors and influential factors in hazardous chemical warehouse accidents. This paper aims to investigate the impact of HFs that contribute to HE, which has caused FI disasters, explosions, and incidents in the past. This paper investigates why and how HEs contribute to the most severe accidents that occur while storing and using hazardous chemicals. The impact of fireworks and match industry disasters has motivated the planning of mitigation in this proposal. This analysis used machine learning (ML) and recommends an expert system (ES). There were many significant correlations between individual behaviors and the chance of HE to occur. This paper proposes an ML-based prediction model for fireworks and match work industries in Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu. For this study analysis, the questionnaire responses are reviewed for accuracy and coded from 500 participants from the fireworks and match industries in Tamil Nadu who were chosen to fill out a questionnaire. The Chief Inspectorate of Factories in Chennai and the Training Centre for Industrial Safety and Health in Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu, India, significantly contributed to the collection of accident datasets for the FI in Tamil Nadu, India. The data are analyzed and presented in the following categories based on this study’s objectives: the effect of physical, psychological, and organizational factors. The output implemented by comparing ML models, support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), and Naïve Bayes (NB) accuracy is 86.45%, 91.6%, and 92.1%, respectively. Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) has the optimal classification accuracy of 94.41% of ML models. This research aims to create a new ES to mitigate HE risks in the fireworks and match work industries. The proposed ES reduces HE risk and improves workplace safety in unsafe, uncertain workplaces. Proper safety management systems (SMS) can prevent deaths and injuries such as fires and explosions. © 2023 by the authors.
This comprehensive study delves into the revolutionary possibilities of AI and ML in predictive analytics for gauging private insurance industry employees' stress levels. Recognizing the root causes and anticipating stress patterns becomes critical as the industry faces increasing workplace stress. The use of AI and ML allows us to explore several aspects of stress, including stress in the workplace and personal factors that affect stress levels. Starting with an overview of the present state of affairs in the private insurance sector, we underscore the critical nature of resolving this matter immediately. Stress event forecasting, pattern recognition in historical data, and early indication identification are areas where AI and ML are finding practical use. In order to reduce the negative effects of stress, AI-driven algorithms can quickly determine which employees are at high risk and then intervene proactively. Additionally, this article discusses possible biases in AI systems, data privacy, and ethical concerns. The substantial contribution is found in the exhaustive analysis of the revolutionary role of AI and ML in changing the insurance industry, namely in determining which employees pose a high risk and in developing specific interventions to improve their health. Industry experts, lawmakers, and researchers will find this research paper useful since it sheds light on the complex nature of stress and provides concrete suggestions for creating more positive workplaces.  © 2023 IEEE.
Learning from prior incidents is crucial for improving safety, particularly in the construction industry where fatalities and injuries are frequent. High-precision classification of construction accident narratives is a laborious, time-consuming process that requires substantial domain expertise. However, automatic text classification had fallen short of expectations due to a lack of high-quality data sets, inadequate semantic interpretation, and primitive model architecture. To address these issues, this study developed a state-of-the-art text classification (TC) model to extract construction knowledge and classify construction accident narratives into predefined categories. The architecture of the TC deep-learning model was built based on the pretrained instruction-based omnifarious representations (INSTRUCTOR). A class-imbalance treatment (CIT) technique incorporating focal loss and weighted random sampling was embedded to make the model concentrate on hard samples and minority classes. The retrained and fine-tuned INSTRUCTOR-CIT model achieved an F1 score of 82.22% for the benchmark data set containing 1,000 accident narratives from the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA). Impressively, on a larger benchmark data set of 4,770 OSHA accident narratives labeled by another official system, the model achieved an F1 score of 94.84%, highlighting its generality. Furthermore, the experimental results demonstrated that our model was superior to existing methods with less preprocessing and higher accuracy. Finally, the contribution to construction project management was discussed to enhance unstructured data management in the construction industry. The findings of this study contribute to effective management practices and assist construction professionals focus on value-added tasks such as decision making and corrective action planning. © 2024 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Literature on supervised Machine-Learning (ML) approaches for classifying text-based safety reports for the construction sector has been growing. Recent studies have emphasized the need to build ML approaches that balance high classification accuracy and performance on management criteria, such as resource intensiveness. However, despite being highly accurate, the extensively focused, supervised ML approaches may not perform well on management criteria as many factors contribute to their resource intensiveness. Alternatively, the potential for semi-supervised ML approaches to achieve balanced performance has rarely been explored in the construction safety literature. The current study contributes to the scarce knowledge on semi-supervised ML approaches by demonstrating the applicability of a state-of-the-art semi-supervised learning approach, i.e., Yet, Another Keyword Extractor (YAKE) integrated with Guided Latent Dirichlet Allocation (GLDA) for construction safety report classification. Construction-safety-specific knowledge is extracted as keywords through YAKE, relying on accessible literature with minimal manual intervention. Keywords from YAKE are then seeded in the GLDA model for the automatic classification of safety reports without requiring a large quantity of prelabeled datasets. The YAKE-GLDA classification performance (F1 score of 0.66) is superior to existing unsupervised methods for the benchmark data containing injury narratives from Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA). The YAKE-GLDA approach is also applied to near-miss safety reports from a construction site. The study demonstrates a high degree of generality of the YAKE-GLDA approach through a moderately high F1 score of 0.86 for a few categories in the near-miss data. The current research demonstrates that, unlike the existing supervised approaches, the semi-supervised YAKE-GLDA approach can achieve a novel possibility of consistently achieving reasonably good classification performance across various construction-specific safety datasets yet being resource-efficient. Results from an objective comparative and sensitivity analysis contribute to much-required knowledge-contesting insights into the functioning and applicability of the YAKE-GLDA. The results from the current study will help construction organizations implement and optimize an efficient ML-based knowledge-mining strategy for domains beyond safety and across sites where the availability of a pre-labeled dataset is a significant limitation. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
The agriculture industry lacks novel techniques for analyzing risks facing its workers. Although injuries are common in this field, existing datasets and tools are insufficient for risk assessment and mitigation for two primary reasons: they provide neither immediate nor long-term risk mitigation advice, and they do not account for hazards which fluctuate daily. The purpose of Demeter is to collect safety data about hazards on farms and produce risk analysis and mitigation reports. This application uses a combination of formula-based risk calculations and state-of-the-art graph neural networks (GNNs) to perform risk analysis and reduction. The formula-based risk calculations had a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.2110, and the GNN had an accuracy of 94.9%, a precision of 0.3521, and a recall of 0.8333. Demeter has the potential to reduce the number of injuries and fatalities among agriculture workers by alerting them to risks present in their daily workflow and suggesting safety precautions. © 2024 VISIMO.
BACKGROUND: Assessing working posture risks is important for occupational safety and health. However, low-cost assessment techniques for human motion injuries in the logistics delivery industry have rarely been reported. OBJECTIVE: To propose a novel approach for posture risk assessment using low-cost motion capture with artificial intelligence. METHODS: A Kinect was adopted to obtain red-green-blue (RGB) and depth images of the subject with 24 postures, and the human joints were extracted using artificial intelligence. The images were registered to obtain the actual three-dimensional (3D) human joint angle. RESULTS: The root mean square error (RMSE) significantly decreased. Finally, two common methods for evaluating human working posture injuries - the Rapid Upper Limb Assessment and Ovako Working Posture Analysis System - were investigated. CONCLUSIONS: The outputs of the proposed method are consistent with those of the commercial ergonomic evaluation software. © 2023 - IOS Press. All rights reserved.
Construction tasks involve extensive and repetitive physically demanding activities, which results in a higher risk of work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs) compared to other industries. Thus, assessing construction workers' postural ergonomics during construction occupational tasks is critical to evaluating workers' postural stresses and reducing the potential risk of WMSDs. Recent developments in machine learning-based computer vision methods have attracted an increasing attention of construction researchers as it is an effective tool for assessing postural ergonomics. However, existing computer vision-based ergonomic assessments in the construction research field are still mainly based on multiple-view motion tracking systems or fixed-position stand-Alone cameras. These types of motion-Tracking methods are limited by resource-expensive and serious occlusion issues. As an alternative approach, this paper proposes an economical and scalable machine learning enabled egocentric postural ergonomic assessment (EPEA) system that integrates the fisheye camera mounted to the hard hat to identify and assess workers' postural ergonomics via a convolutional 3D pose estimation neural network. We tested the EPEA with multiple construction operational tasks. Results show that the EPEA can correctly identify users' key joint parts and classify different postures. The results confirmed the usability and feasibility of the proposed system, and it has the potential to help construction workers to identify the potential WMSDs risks during repetitive and forceful construction works. © International Conference on Computing in Civil Engineering 2023.All rights reserved.
Safety is one the most essential protocols and a moral responsibility that must be followed in any industry. Hazardous industries, such as fire departments, construction departments, and manufacturing units, require proper training to minimize dangerous accidents caused by heavy machinery. Some accidents that can occur are electrocution, falling from a height, or being hit by a moving vehicle. A statistical study conducted by the Bureau of Laboratory Statistics states that 31% of work-related injuries have caused Musculoskeletal Disorders. Since prevention is better than cure, we bring it to the limelight on the various works carried out for this purpose. In this article, a review of how AI models can be used for anomaly detection, feature recognition and rule-based human posture recognition is done along with the various methods to collect the data set for ergonomic analysis which can be used to broaden the scope of possible solutions to reduce industrial hazards. © 2024 The Author(s).
Reports of fatal and nonfatal workplace injuries depict severe circumstances involving health and safety in industries. This leads to workers staying away from work in U.S. for an average of 12 days in 2020, implicating in managerial, financial, and organizational losses. In this context, Vision-Based Deep Learning (VBDL) and Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KRR) allow real-time data retrieval of situations along with the semantic modeling and expressivity of the real world to mitigate injuries. This article presents a framework that interoperates vision-based deep learning and ontology reasoning to identify adverse working situations, introducing a novel ontology composed of a holistic perspective of workers’ health and safety. Moreover, the article provides multi-agent framework modeling to orchestrate the components’ interoperability, describing the framework's architecture and deployment in workrooms. As a result, a practical evaluation over five days produced 8395 axioms constituted by 1210 individuals in the ontology, which allowed a temporal analysis of harmful conditions and their multiple overlapping using SPARQL and reasoning rules, particularly relevant to understanding explanations of overexertion, physical and environmental injuries. Therefore, the proposed ontology-based framework corroborates the long-term support in identifying, assessing, and controlling risks in the industries due to a well-defined knowledge model. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
This study investigated the awareness of the Nigerian construction organisations on some identified ML application areas, and the readiness of the organisations to adopt ML learning in the identified application areas. A comprehensive Literature review was undertaken to identify the application areas of ML, then, a well-structured questionnaire was developed and used to gather relevant data from construction professionals using the snowball sampling method via electronic means. 143 valid responses were obtained, and the gathered data were analysed using arrays of descriptive and inferential analytical tools. The study revealed that the critical applications areas of ML with higher awareness level and adoption readiness in Nigeria are (1) Health and Safety prediction and management, (2) Waste management, (3) Prediction of and management of construction costs, (4) Risk Management, (5) Structural Health Monitoring and Prediction, and (6) Building Life-Cycle assessment and management. Further, a significant statistical difference was observed between the opinions of the participants regarding the awareness and adoption readiness of the various ML application areas. This study identified critical application areas of ML where the awareness and adoption readiness are very high, thus, signalling the preparedness of the Nigerian construction industry (NCI) to embrace ML to drive sustainable construction. © 2024 by authors and Galileo Institute of Technology and Education of the Amazon (ITEGAM).
Data-driven intelligent technologies are promoting a disruptive digital transformation of human society. Industrial accident prevention is also amid this change. Although many emerging technologies, such as machine learning (ML), are extensively employed in workplace safety, these approaches need to fit the intended safety purpose of accident analysis, risk assessment, adverse outcome prediction, or anomaly detection. Hence, examining the “real-world” need for accident prevention and the advantages of emerging data-driven methodologies to better integrate them is necessary. This study provides a systematic review to clarify the current research status, existing problems, and future insights into these evolving technologies in accident prevention. We present notable gaps and barriers in data-driven accident prevention by analyzing 194 published studies from four perspectives: Paradigm, Model, Data Source, and Purpose. The results demonstrate (1) lack of a systematic framework to guide the application of Big Data (BD) in the field of safety; (2) few prior studies have considered model interpretability; (3) more proactive data needs to be incorporated into accident analysis; (4) safety-related data and domain knowledge need to be further integrated; (5) some recent data-driven techniques are unexplored in safety science. Further, the future research opportunities are discussed based on these findings. Such review may help clarify the mapping of data-driven tasks to safety goals to accelerate the uptake of data-driven technologies in safety or accident analysis research. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
Introduction: There are some inherent problems with the use of observation methods in the ergonomic assessment of working posture, namely the stability and precision of the measurements. This study aims to use a machine learning (ML) approach to avoid the subjectivity bias of observational methods in ergonomic assessments and further identify risk patterns for work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs) among sewing machine operators. Methods: We proposed a decision tree analysis scheme for ergonomic assessment in working postures (DTAS-EAWP). First, DTAS-EAWP used computer vision-based technology to detect the body movement angles from the on-site working videos to generate a dataset of risk scores through the criteria of Rapid Entire Body Assessment (REBA) for sewing machine operators. Second, data mining techniques (WEKA) using the C4.5 algorithm were used to construct a representative decision tree (RDT) with paths of various risk levels, and attribute importance analysis was performed to determine the critical body segments for WMSDs. Results: DTAS-EAWP was able to recognize 11,211 samples of continuous working postures in sewing machine operation and calculate the corresponding final REBA scores. A total of 13 decision rules were constructed in the RDT, with over 95% prediction accuracy and 83% path coverage, to depict the possible risk tendency in the working postures. Through RDT and attribute importance analysis, it was identified that the lower arm and the upper arms exhibited as critical segments that significantly increased the risk levels for WMSDs. Conclusions: This study demonstrates that ML approach with computer vision-based estimation and DT analysis are feasible for comprehensively exploring the decision rules in ergonomic assessment of working postures for risk prediction of WMSDs in sewing machine operators. Practical Applications: This DTAS-EAWP can be applied in manufacturing industries to automatically analyze working postures and identify risk patterns of WMSDs, leading to the development of effectively preventive interventions. © 2023
In recent years, technological developments have peaked; more and more technologies are being introduced frequently and implemented into various sectors through applications not previously imagined. The Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) are two technologies that have significantly impacted several industries such as Healthcare, Military, Transport, Construction, etc. As we know, on the one hand, construction sites are one of the most happening industries in this era due to significant developments like intelligent infrastructure, smart cities, etc. in the other hand, the construction industry is known for its complex and hazardous work environments which as a result are prone to numerous safety hazards and risk factors that can result in accidents, injuries, or even fatalities. Traditional monitoring and risk assessment approaches often fall short of providing real-time insights. However, by implementing cutting-edge technology stacks like IoT and AI, real-time site monitoring and risk assessment have become achievable, allowing construction companies to address potential dangers and improve safety measures proactively. By leveraging technologies, construction sites can collect real-time data, tracking equipment performance, site conditions, and worker safety. Along with this, the integration of AI enables advanced risk assessment methodologies, predicting potential hazards and identifying risks that may otherwise go unnoticed. This article will discuss a comprehensive approach to real-time site monitoring and risk assessment in construction settings using the Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Our objective will be to design and develop a robust architecture of IoT nodes/devices that will communicate and extract real-time data of several parameters. Those data will then be analyzed using an artificial intelligence model to gain meaningful insight into the present condition and for risk assessment to prevent any danger to any human or asset and improve the efficiency of the work environment in specific noticeable metrics. © 2023 Seventh Sense Research Group®
Workers in the modular construction industry are frequently exposed to ergonomic risks, which may lead to injuries and lower productivity. In light of this, researchers have proposed a number of ergonomics risk assessment methods to identify design flaws in work systems, thereby reducing ergonomic discomfort and boosting workplace productivity. However, organizations often disregard ergonomics risk assessments due to a lack of convenient tools and knowledge. Therefore, this study proposes a fuzzy logic-based decision support system to help practitioners to automatically and comprehensively assess the ergonomic performance of work systems. For comprehensive assessment of ergonomic risk, the proposed decision support system considers physical, environmental, and sensory factors. Specifically, the decision support system comprises eight fuzzy expert systems that output a composite risk score, called an “ergonomic risk indicator”, that indicates the overall level of ergonomic risk present in a given work system. The performance of the proposed decision support system is then evaluated using a real-world case study in a modular construction facility by comparing the results of the decision support system with the facility's occupational injury reports. The results prove the effectiveness of the decision support system. Overall, the decision support system is capable of generating a composite risk score, the ergonomic risk indicator, and the proposed high-level architecture and design represent significant contributions for the enhancement of health and safety in the modular construction industry. © 2023 Elsevier B.V.
This article examines the use of machine learning to prevent incidents and occupational hazards at the workplace. The authors have analyzed existing research in this area and have demonstrated the possibility of use of the machine learning to predict risks and prevent incidents. Specifically, the authors studied the methods of logical regression and classification to analyze data on past incidents. The results of the study showed that the use of machine learning can significantly improve the accuracy of risk prediction and enable more effective incident prevention. The importance of introduction of machine learning is discussed in the context of workplace safety and directions for further research are suggested. Overall, the article is an important addition to the general literature on the use of machine learning in the field of workplace safety and provides an opportunity to better understand the background and improve the accuracy of risk prediction and incident prevention at the workplace. The study is of interest to scientists, practitioners and politicians involved in workplace safety, as well as to those who are involved in the development and implementation of machine learning systems. © 2023 SPIE.
In the construction industry, due to workers frequently engaging in highly physically demanding tasks and using various tools, workers are often exposed to ergonomic risks and safety hazards. Various observation-based traditional or computer vision-based artificial intelligence methods have been applied in the field of construction to assess ergonomic risks. However, the method of assessing ergonomic risks using Generative Pretrained Transformers (GPT) based visual language models has not been thoroughly explored. This study explores its unique ability in visual-text interaction to extract ergonomic risk information from images and generate corresponding human-like language descriptions. To test the feasibility and performance of the proposed method, two datasets were created. Each dataset contained 100 different scenarios with ergonomic risk information for finetuning and testing. Performance after finetuning the vision-language model with the finetuning dataset outperformed the model before finetuning; the results showed that the fine-tuned model achieved an accuracy of 81%, while the model before finetuning only achieved 28% accuracy. Therefore, the proposed method offers an automated, real-time, non-traditional artificial intelligence approach for identifying ergonomic risks and providing human-like language descriptions. This expands the perspective of health and safety-related problem-solving and promotes the prevention of work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSD) in the construction industry. © 2024 ISARC. All Rights Reserved.
The psychophysiological state of workers in high-risk industries can affect their work efficiency and overall well-being, representing one of the major causes of catastrophic industrial accidents. Mental load is closely associated with the psychological state of workers. This study explores the potential of deep learning (DL) in classifying and recognizing mental load by collecting physiological signals of workers engaged in hazardous operations. Thirty chemical and safety professionals were selected for data collection, including electroencephalography (EEG), photoplethysmography (PPG), and electrooculography (EOG) signals, and extracting physiological indexes, a combination of four feature selection and extraction techniques is employed for multi-modal information fusion and feature dimensionality reduction. DL and traditional machine learning (ML) techniques are utilized to construct a mental load recognition model, and the performance of the model is evaluated using six reliable metrics. The results show that sensitivity testing successfully induced mental load state, with significant changes in EEG, PPG, and EOG indexes. Feature dimensionality reduction can improve the recognition effect and random forest feature selection (RFS) is the best method. Multi-modal information fusion and feature dimensionality reduction are effective methods for improving mental load recognition. The combination of RFS and 1D-convolutional neural network (1D-CNN) model delivers excellent recognition effectiveness, with an overall accuracy of 90.67% and a high mental load recognition accuracy of 95%. Our research can be applied in engineering production to guide occupational suitability and personnel selection, psychological training, and the adjustment of personnel in critical positions in high-risk industries such as chemical, mining, and construction. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
BACKGROUND: Quantitatively analyzing the impact of UV radiation and noise during welding operations is essential to assess the exposure, identify potential hazards, and develop targeted safety protocols to ensure worker safety and adherence to safety regulations, especially in developing countries with inadequate adherence to safety standards and resources. OBJECTIVES: This study employs machine learning for predicting ultraviolet radiation and noise levels during welding, emphasizing worker safety. The focus is on the Indian foundry sector to gauge actual exposure vis-á-vis safety standards. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ultraviolet radiation and noise emitted during the welding of a ferrous alloy were collected from three foundries in Agra, India. Five machine learning (ML) algorithms were applied for data analysis and prediction of UV radiation and noise levels, and a relative performance comparison was carried out on the compiled data against safety standards. RESULTS: Out of all the ML algorithms applied, the Support Vector Machine regression algorithm (RMSE = 356.93) obtained the best performance on UV radiation data, and the Random Forest algorithm (RMSE = 11.4) was found to give the best results for the noise level prediction task. CONCLUSIONS: This work represents the first known application of machine learning techniques for predicting UV radiation and noise levels in arc welding processes. The results show the efficacy of algorithms such as SVM regression and Random Forest for the problem. Further, the datasets and ML algorithms implemented in the work will be made openly available to support further research endeavors in this and related areas.
Occupational health and safety in mining operations hold paramount importance, encompassing multifaceted aspects aimed at ensuring the well-being of workers. Prolonged whole-body vibration (WBV) exposure among mining vehicle operators has been associated with a range of adverse health effects, most notably musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) such as chronic low back pain and lumbar disc herniation. This study aims to develop a predictive model utilizing machine learning techniques, specifically Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), to forecast the health risk associated with WBV exposure under different operational conditions. The vibration data of the tippers were acquired during its routine operation in an opencast mine in central India. The dataset encompassed various operational factors, including haul road type, operator weight, speed, and payload, under which an ANN model was trained to predict the resulting vibration exposure magnitude. ANN model was developed using Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) architecture to predict the health risk. Backpropagation was used to adjust the weights of the connections between neurons in order to minimize the difference between predicted and actual output. 70% of the total data was used for training and the others for data testing (15%) and validation (15%). The correlation coefficient for the training and test of the optimum network were found to be 97.58% and 97.4%, respectively indicating an excellent correlation between the predicted frequency weighted root mean square acceleration (awrms) for both training and test stages. AI has revolutionized the mining industry, bringing digitization and automation to the forefront. The predictive model presented here for WBV-related health risks is a powerful tool for mine safety engineering. By harnessing machine learning techniques, it improves risk assessment and enables targeted interventions, improving the quality of life of the mining workforce. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2023.
Engineer-to-order manufacturing, characterized by highly customized products and complex workflows, presents unique challenges for warehouse management and operational efficiency. This paper explores the potential of a digital twin as a transformative solution for engineer-to-order environments in manufacturing companies realizing prefabricated building components. This paper outlines a methodology encompassing users’ requirements and the design to support the development of a digital twin that integrates Internet of Things devices, Building Information Modeling, and artificial intelligence capabilities. It delves into the specific challenges of outdoor warehouse optimization and worker safety within the context of engineer-to-order manufacturing, and how the digital twin aims to address these issues through data collection, analysis, and visualization. The research is conducted through an in-depth analysis of the warehouse of Focchi S.p.A., a leading manufacturer of high-tech prefabricated building envelopes. Focchi’s production processes and stakeholder interactions are investigated, and the paper identifies key user groups and their multiple requirements for warehouse improvement. It also examines the potential of the digital twin to streamline communication, improve decision-making, and enhance safety protocols. While preliminary testing results are not yet available, the paper concludes by underlining the significant opportunities offered by a BIM-, IoT-, and AI-powered digital twin for engineer-to-order manufacturers. This research, developed within the IRIS project, serves as a promising model for integrating digital technologies into complex warehouse environments, paving the way for increased efficiency, safety, and ultimately, a competitive edge in the market of manufacturing companies working in the construction industry. © 2024 by the author.
More than one in four workers reportedly suffer from back pain worldwide, leading to 264 million work days lost yearly. In the U.S. alone, it causes $50 billion in healthcare costs every year, up to $100 billion if including decreased productivity and lost wages. The upcoming Industry 5.0 revolution will introduce human-centric manufacturing systems where workers’ well-being comes first while safeguarding their rights: privacy, autonomy, and human dignity. This paper presents a privacy-preserving system based on artificial intelligence that tracks the posture of assembly/disassembly line workers while performing typical standardized tasks on repeat: connecting and separating parts; screwing and unscrewing using an electric screwdriver; tin soldering and unsoldering. The proposed solution assesses the upper-body (dominant arm, dominant shoulder, and trunk) and lower-body (legs) postures according to the ISO 11226 European standard, based on inertial data recorded by a smartwatch and using Laser imaging Detection and Ranging (LiDAR), respectively. These techniques preserve privacy as they collect data that cannot reveal the worker's identity or sensitive information. Experiments showed that the system recognized a worker's posture with a mean accuracy close to 98%. The system could help detect bad posture habits and reduce the chances of musculoskeletal disorders while preserving the workers’ privacy, in compliance with the upcoming Industry 5.0 paradigm. © 2023
Hazard and operability analysis (HAZOP) is a remarkable representative in industrial safety engineering. However, a great storehouse of industrial safety knowledge (ISK) in HAZOP reports has not been thoroughly exploited. In order to reuse and unlock the value of ISK and optimize HAZOP, we have developed a novel knowledge graph for industrial safety (ISKG) with HAZOP as the carrier through bridging data science and engineering design. Specifically, firstly, considering that the knowledge contained in HAZOP reports of different processes in industry is not the same, we creatively developed a general ISK standardization framework, it provides a practical scheme for integrating HAZOP reports from various processes and uniformly representing the ISK with diverse expressions. Secondly, we conceive a novel and reliable information extraction model based on deep learning combined with data science, it can effectively mine ISK from HAZOP reports, which alleviates the obstacle of ISK extraction caused by the particularity of HAZOP text. Finally, we build ISK triples and store them in the Neo4j graph database. We take indirect coal liquefaction process as a case study to develop ISKG, and its oriented applications can optimize HAZOP and mine the potential of ISK, which is of great significance to improve the security of the system and enhance prevention awareness for people. ISKG containing the ISK standardization framework and the information extraction model sets an example of the interaction between data science and engineering design, which can enlighten other researchers and extend the perspectives of industrial safety. © 2022 Elsevier B.V.
Today, as the construction industry grows, the frequency of occupational accidents has risen as well. The advancement of technology, inadequacies in workplace safety procedures, and untrained workers are the primary causes of these workplace mishaps. In this research, occupational accident data were preprocessed and then subjected to univariate frequency and cross-tabulation analysis. As a consequence of the research, risk factors for occupational accidents were identified. Then, using Bayesian networks, the impacts of these factors on occupational accidents were examined (BNs). A Bayesian network is a graphical model that captures the conditional dependencies between variables. On a dataset from an international construction firm, the Bayesian network was deployed. Finally, we evaluated the correctness of the constructed Bayesian network and other performance criteria, as well as the model's efficacy. The experimental findings indicate that utilizing machine learning methods, some occupational accident situations may be predicted with great accuracy. The main aim of the paper is to aims to get rid of the repetitive patterns in the data and present a more reasonable level of data for the classification analysis. © 2021, The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Society for Reliability Engineering, Quality and Operations Management (SREQOM), India and The Division of Operation and Maintenance, Lulea University of Technology, Sweden.
Construction accidents are the most significant contributor to occupational disasters among all industries worldwide. This is due to the highly open and dynamic characteristics of construction sites. The unprotected elevator shaft before the installation of mechanical equipment is especially risky for construction workers. Although the safety regulations require the employer to provide sufficient safety behavior facilities and the workers to wear personal protection devices, accidents still occur due to the unsafe practices of the workers. In order to improve the situation, this paper presents an image semantic segmentation method using the Deep Learning (DL) technique for monitoring the fall risk of construction workers near the building elevator shaft. Based on both the laboratory results and in-situ testing, it has been found that the Recall and Precision during the training process in laboratory and the Cleanness and Correctness obtained on site surpassed 95% high performance criteria. It has been concluded that the proposed method provides construction safety personnel an effective tool for monitoring the risks and preventing accidental falls for the construction workers. © 2021, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved.
In this era of data mining techniques, big data, machine learning and artificial intelligence is also increasing in importance as the occupational health and safety prediction in the nation decided to develop intellectual ability in their manufacturing processes. Fireworks industry accidents (FIAs) have been one of the main national threats and danger concerns in the world over the years and are the leading cause of death. Many influences (chemicals, facilities, transport, temperature, friction, etc.) are linked to fireworks incidents, some of which are more important than others in deciding the seriousness of the accident. The worker's safety behavior or risk assessment to provide insights for improving the industry's performance in order to make it right. Analytical data mining solutions can be used effectively to recognize and forecast certain influential factors among human health and safety predictors. Using a real dataset, this approach was tested. In this analysis, classification techniques of the Decision tree classifier allow predicting the risk factor in the firework industries among the safety measures factors. © 2021 IEEE.
While occupational noise exposures are well understood in certain industries, increasing attention has recently been given to exposures in non-traditional and non-occupational settings. Further, there is growing interest in the use of smartphone sound level meter applications (apps) as an alternative to traditional noise measurement devices such as personal dosimeters. This research utilized a smartphone running the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) sound level meter app and a noise dosimeter to measure noise exposures in office, coffee shop, commuter train, restaurant, and spin class settings. Overall (N = 166), noise levels ranged from between 47.7 dBA and 42.6 dBA in the office setting to 101.2 dBA and 101.7 dBA in the spin class, for the smartphone and dosimeter, respectively. The mean difference in measurements was found to be less than 2.0 dBA (within the accuracy of typical noise measurement instruments) for measurements made in a commuter train, restaurant, and spin class locations. Our results suggest that the NIOSH app (without calibration or an external microphone) can be used as an effective screening tool in some settings, particularly when noise levels are stable and exceed 75 dBA. These results are especially timely as wearables (watches and fitness bands) begin to use internal microphones to measure sounds levels. These technologies may face similar measurement issues as we have identified for smartphones without an external calibrated microphone. © 2020 Elsevier Ltd
Forecasting the severity of occupational injuries shall be all industries’ top priority. The use of machine learning is theoretically valuable to assist the predictive analysis, thus, this study attempts to propose a feature-optimized predictive model for anticipating occupational injury severity. A public database of 66,405 occupational injury records from OSHA is analyzed using five sets of machine learning models: Support Vector Machine, K-Nearest Neighbors, Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, and Random Forest. For model comparison, Random Forest outperformed other models with higher accuracy and F1-score. Therefore, it highlighted the potential of ensemble learning as a more accurate prediction model in the field of occupational injury. In constructing the model, this study also proposed the feature optimization technique that revealed the three most important features; ‘nature of injury’, ‘type of event’, and ‘affected body part’ in developing model. The accuracy of the Random Forest model was improved by 0.5% or 0.895 and 0.954 for the prediction of hospitalization and amputation, respectively by redeveloping and optimizing the model with hyperparameter tuning. The feature optimization is essential in providing insight knowledge to the Safety and Health Practitioners for future injury corrective and preventive strategies. This study has shown promising potential for smart workplace surveillance. © 2022 by the authors.
Industrial work environments are hazardous. Manufacturing facilities contain moving parts equipment, hazardous tools, and ergonomic risks. Falls, moving cars, and large materials are frequent occurrences at construction sites. Forklift traffic, lifting concerns, and even slip and fall dangers are common in warehouses. Even if accidents do occur, there are still things you can do to prevent them. In order to prevent illness and injury in the workplace, employees' training is essential. According to research, most workplace changes and improvements require practical, small-group training for the safety of the workers that are working in that industry.In all industries, industrial safety and health should be given top priority by all firms. Accidents have typically been attributed to dangerous conduct, hazardous physical working circumstances, or malfunctioning technical systems. Industrial safety is a branch of safety science that attempts to provide businesses with a risk-free, hygienic workplace.The main aim of the paper is to predict if the industry measures are safer for the workers or not with the help of hybrid ensemble techniques. © 2022 IEEE.
Safety inspection on construction sites is critical for safety management, and understanding the hazard recognition strategies caters for inspection training and construction safety management. Scanpaths generated from the eye movement data of the inspectors reveal information on hazard searching strategy. However, few studies have investigated scan patterns of hazard recognition in the construction industry. This paper aims to explore visual searching strategies through eye-tracking scan patterns for construction safety inspection. An experimental study with 47 participants was designed to identify hazards in a pseudo construction site, and the scanning data were collected with a portable eye-tracking device. Artificial intelligence was then used to quantitatively define areas of interest (AOIs) based on the extracted fixation data of all participants. Finally, the searching strategies of the participants who successfully recognized hazards were compared to the strategies of those who failed. The results show that the successful participants follow similar hazard searching patterns, which are different from those of the participants who failed. This paper reports on a conceptual study of hazard searching patterns based on visual scanpaths, contributing to research of the searching strategies for hazard recognition as well as providing practical implications for hazard inspection strategies in construction projects. © 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Improving workers’ safety and health is one of the most critical issues in the construction industry. Research attempts have been made to better identify construction hazards on a jobsite by analyzing workers’ physical responses (e.g., stride and balance) or physiological responses (e.g., brain waves and heart rate) collected from the wearable devices. Among them, electroencephalogram (EEG) holds unique potential since it reveals abnormal patterns immediately when a hazard is perceived and recognized. Unfortunately, the unproven capacity of EEG signals for multi-hazard classification is a primary barrier towards ubiquitous hazard identification in real-time on jobsites. This study correlates EEG signal patterns with construction hazard types and develops an EEG classifier based on the experiments conducted in an immersive virtual reality (VR) environment. Hazards of different types (e.g., fall and slip/trip) were simulated in a VR environment. EEG signals were collected from subjects who wore both wearable EEG and VR devices during the experimentation. Two types of EEG features (time-domain/frequency-domain features and cognitive features) were extracted for training and testing. A total of eighteen advanced machine learning algorithms were used to develop the EEG classifier. The initial results showed that the LightGBM classifier achieved 70.1% accuracy based on the cognitive feature set for the 7-class classification. To improve the performance, the input data was relabeled, and three strategies were designed and tested. As a result, the combined approach (two-step ensemble classification) achieved 82.3% accuracy. As such, this study not only demonstrates the feasibility of coupling wearable EEG, VR, and machine learning to differentiate jobsite hazards but also provides strategies to improve multi-class classification performance. The research results support ubiquitous hazard identification and thereby contribute to the safety of the construction workplace. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
Regardless of the efforts of employers and public organizations to eliminate occupational accidents, the latter is a persistent problem in the construction industry. In the Swedish construction context, there is a desire to identify causes and factors playing a role in work-related accident prevention, as there are large underused databases of collected registrations that represent knowledge on causes and the context of accidents. The aim of the current contribution is to review the application of machine learning (ML) in the improved prevention of accidents and corresponding injuries, and to identify current limitations - and most importantly to answer the question of whether ML actually reveals more than what is currently known about accidents in construction. A systematic literature review on the use of ML for analysing data of accident records was carried out. In the reviewed literature, ML was applied in the prediction of accidents or their outcome, and the extraction or identification of the causes affecting the risks of injuries. ML combined with data mining (DM) techniques such as Natural Language Processing and graph mining, appears to be beneficial in discovering associations between different features and in multiple levels of clusters. However, the literature shows that research on ML in accident prevention is at an early stage. The review of the literature indicates gaps in the justification of methodological choices, such as the choice of ML method and data processing. Moreover, characteristics of the injury rates and severity are shown to be clashing with the mechanisms of the ML classification algorithms. This should probably lead to abandoning severity as a parameter and changing the approach towards the asymmetric data classes (denoted "unbalanced"in ML methodology), leaving space for finding the important causes. An overreliance on internal validity testing and lack of external testing of the algorithms' performance and prediction accuracy persists. Future research needs to focus on methods addressing the problem of data processing, explaining the choice of methods, explaining the results (especially the variance in ML algorithm's performance), merging different data sources, considering more attributes (such as risk management), applying deep learning algorithms, and improving the testing accuracy of ML models. © 2020 Association of Researchers in Construction Management.
As artificial intelligence (AI) becomes more sophisticated in imitating human cognitive processes (e.g., problem solving, object detection, and learning), it has transformed several industry sectors and has had a growing impact on the way construction projects are delivered. One of the areas that has great potential to advance breakthroughs for innovative improvements is in electrical safety. Data generated from images captured from mobile devices, unmanned aerial vehicles, wearable sensors, building information modeling (BIM), and others present an opportunity for construction safety professionals and in many other sectors to analyze and benefit from the insights generated from the data using AI, machine learning and deep learning systems. For example, AI-based algorithms can be used to scan images from jobsites for safety hazards, such as workers not wearing protective equipment, and correlate the images with accident records; identify unsafe worker behavior and suggest training and education priorities; or track the real-time interactions of workers, machinery, and objects on the site and alert supervisors of potential safety issues. Using AI to execute the existing Shock and Arc Flash Risk Assessment Procedure templates from CSA Z462 and NFPA 70E as real-world scenarios and the potential ethical factors from the workers perspectives will also be discussed. Considering AI's immense potential, this study aims to synthesize emerging trends of artificial intelligence in electrical safety.  © 2020 IEEE.
The construction industry is one of the most hazardous industries, and construction hazard awareness is a major concern and vital at work. This paper compared 11,829 construction safety and health hazard awareness Weibo microposts and 769 articles indexed in Web of Science (WoS) from 1900 to 2021. It compared different foci between academia and laypeople by studying safety hazards like fire, electrical, chemical, collapsing trenches, and health-related risks such as asbestos and heat stress. The first construction safety and health hazard paper was published in 1991 in WoS, while the first construction hazard awareness related Weibo microposts appeared in 2011. Safety Science is the journal that publishes most articles in this area, and the US is the most productive country. On the other hand, the top 5 Weibo microbloggers were government departments. Popular construction safety and health hazard Weibo topics included collapse, earthquake, safety management, risk management, high-level and construction situation etc. In contrast, 20% of researchers’ most popular topics in construction hazard awareness were hazard identification, recognition, computer vision, virtual reality, tracking, simulation. The results showed that academia focused on high-tech stuff, such as artificial intelligence. However, in sharp contrast, it was seldom mentioned with construction safety and health hazard awareness in Weibo despite artificial intelligence having already become part of our daily lives. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
Although the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has played a key role in decreasing safety accidents on construction sites, such reduction is not well perceived among the different types of incidents. For instance, while the injuries resulting in days away from work were substantially decreased, construction fatalities rose in the previous years. While previous safety fatality research work concentrated on studying how different variables could influence the number of fatalities in the construction industry, there is a lack of research efforts that studied the associations, interdependencies, and critical combinations between the different fatality causes. As such, to solve the critical fatality problem that the construction industry is facing, more advanced management methods should be applied. That said, this paper aims to address this important knowledge gap through a methodology based on data-driven computational algorithms. The data analyzed in this paper is comprised of 100 OSHA national fatal accident case files that are prepared by OSHA compliance officers. First, a reference matrix of 100 case files was constructed based on 60 causes that have shown to be the most pertinent to construction fatalities based on a previous study. Second, the spectral clustering computational algorithm was used to cluster the fatality causes based on the strength of their interconnectivities. Third, the frequent pattern data mining and Apriori algorithms were used to determine the critical combinations and associations of causes that mostly contribute to fatal accidents on construction sites. The findings indicate that the 60 fatality causes could be categorized into five clusters. Thus, the most critical combination of fatality causes was determined within each one of the identified clusters. Also, the findings reflected that while safety accidents could happen due to factors or causes that are individually critical, fatalities on construction sites could also result due to a combination of factors that might not be perceived to be critical on the individual level but rather become critical when combined with other factors. This study adds to the body of knowledge by proposing a data-driven accident causation approach to analyze construction fatality accidents, which adds a different dimension to the traditional analysis of safety accidents by factoring possible associations and combinations between different causes. That said, this paper equips safety professionals with a proactive approach that allows them to take the needed preventive actions to avoid fatalities on construction sites by identifying, in hindsight, the critical combinations and associations of fatality causes. Ultimately, the outcomes of this paper would enhance the safety performance in the construction industry and prevent construction fatalities.  © 2021 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Globally, construction is among the most dangerous industries. Among others, research has demonstrated that construction workers and professionals fail to recognize and manage an unacceptable number of safety hazards. To address this, past research has focused on examining several factors including training, education, and management support that may indirectly influence hazard identification and management performance. However, proximal factors associated with poor hazard identification and management at the work interface has received very little attention. This paper summarizes our research aimed at (1) understanding why workers fail to identify and manage safety hazards as they participate in hazard recognition and management efforts and; (2) developing evidence-based interventions to counter poor hazard identification and management performance in the construction industry. This includes examining hazard recognition as a visual search task and understanding how search pattern (i.e., how workers examine the work environment) affects hazard recognition performance. More specifically, the research used eye-tracking technology to examine the relationship between how workers examine the workplace and the resulting hazard identification performance. Based on this new knowledge generated, new interventions were developed to improve hazard recognition and management performance. These include two interventions. First, an immersive hyper-realistic mixed reality training environment that was developed using stereoscopic visual data captured from real construction workplaces. The testing of the intervention with 56 participants suggested that the intervention can significantly improve hazard identification and management performance. Second, an AI-based system that detects hazardous conditions and objects in real-time to assist workers and managers. The system uses the live video captured by a wearable camera to localize the workers on a pre-built global map, detect any hazard present around the worker, and warns them in real-time. The system is tested in indoor and outdoor construction environments, which indicate 93% accuracy in detecting workers' proximity to hazards. © 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Corn dust is a highly energetic substance and frequently found in the food manufacturing industries. It not only poses occupational safety hazards such as suffocation or lung disorders for exposed persons but is often extremely explosible in ignition sensitive environment. This probability of explosion can be assessed and minimised with in-depth knowledge of controlling parameters/physical properties that trigger the ignition. This research takes into account the minimum ignition temperature (MIT), which is the control parameter for explosion risk assessment. MIT relies on multiple factors, such as moisture content, particle size, dust concentration, dispersion pressure, humidity and environmental temperature. In this study, the ignition of corn dust clouds was analysed using a Godbert Greenwald furnace for different combinations of dispersion pressure and concentrations. Test findings revealed that the minimum ignition temperature rises with a decrease in particle size. However, the minimum ignition temperature decreases with increased dispersion pressure and concentration until a specific value known as optimal value for ignition. Moreover, this work focuses on a statistical approach of polynomial surface fitting to forecast the MIT based on the combined impact of concentration and dispersion pressure on MIT for corn dust in a real-time experiment. The minimum value of the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) was used to select the most appropriate polynomial model due to its authenticity and strong reputation. An artificial neural network (ANN) is also used as a predictive tool to develop a model that can forecast the MIT with a defined combination of dispersion pressures and corn dust concentrations. As soon as an appropriate estimation of this minimum ignition temperature of the combustible dust is confirmed, it is possible to ensure that the temperatures of the surrounding hot surfaces do not rise to that point to prevent the explosion. The predictive results obtained from ANN were found to be good when compared with the polynomial surface fit. Several models with different numbers of neurons have been trained with different transfer functions. For the training, validation, and test phases, R values are around 1.0, i.e., 0.9863, 0.9930, and 0.9893, respectively. The overall R value was 0.9875 for the proposed network. The findings were considered to be acceptable as the overall value of R was close to 1.0. The network obtained sufficiently comparable findings with the research conducted by Kasalova and Balog. © 2021 Institution of Chemical Engineers
To prevent the occurrences of accidents at workplaces, accident data should be analyzed properly. However, handling such data of higher dimension is often a difficult task for analysis to achieve efficient decision making due to the slow convergence and local minima problem. To address these issues, the present study proposes a new clustering algorithm called growing self-organizing map (GSOM)-based genetic K-means (GSGKM) for classifying accident data into an optimal number of clusters. Tolerance rough set approach (TRSA) is later used on each cluster to extract useful accident patterns, which enables helps in accident analysis and prevention. To validate the effectiveness of our proposed methodology, accident data obtained from an integrated steel plant are used as a case study. Besides, a total of four benchmark datasets collected from the University of California, Irvine (UCI) machine learning repository are also used for comparative study to prove its (i.e., GSGKM) superiority over some other state-of-the-arts. Experimental results reveal that the proposed methodology provides the highest clustering accuracy. A total of four clusters are obtained from the analysis. A set of 16 accident crisp patterns or rules are extracted from clusters using TRSA. Company employees are found to be more exposed to accidents than contractors. Additionally, behavioral issues are identified as the most determinant factor behind the injuries at work. The proposed methodology can be effectively used in decision making for different industries, including construction, manufacturing, and aviation. © 2022, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature.
Falls from height (FFH) are still a leading cause of fatalities in the construction industry, which also includes scaffolding-related accidents. Despite regular safety inspections, numerous scaffolding-related accidents occur at the construction site. The current safety monitoring practices are not only impractical but infeasible due to dynamicity of construction environment. Since a separate computer training and detection process is generally required to acquire spatiotemporal reasoning to control a single hazard; thus previous efforts in vision intelligence applications to improve safety monitoring are still limited to specific hazards. Also, in regard to detecting unsafe situations based on extracted correlations from safety rules, to date, previous studies have devoted little attention to this domain. To address these issues, this study proposes a correlation-based approach for mobile scaffold safety monitoring and detecting worker's unsafe behaviors. A deep neural network, Mask R-CNN, was used as classification and segmentation of worker's tasks combined with object correlation detection (OCD) module to identify worker's unsafe behaviors. The approach divides the overall construction worker's safety into two subsets, classification of worker and detection of safe (class-1) and unsafe (class-2) behavior using OCD block. The overall performance was evaluated on set of real scenarios with test results showing 85 % and 97 % precision and recall for class-1 (safe behavior) and 91 % and 65 % precision and recall for class-2 (unsafe behavior). The overall accuracy of 86 % confirms the Mask R-CNN-based OCD module's applicability for detecting worker's unsafe behavior effectively in a construction environment. © 2021 Elsevier B.V.
Occupational accidents are common in the construction industry, therefore developing prediction models to detect high severe accidents would be useful. However, existing studies are limited and usually focus on selecting the most appropriate machine learning method rather than identifying the most effective preprocessing pipeline before the prediction. In this study, a scenario-basis automated preprocessing model that identifies the best scenario is developed to predict the severity of construction accidents. The results show that the scenario combination of not removing missing data, not applying data binning, considering outliers, applying Min-Max-Scaler and one-hot encoding, and data resampling with random oversampling yielded the highest prediction performance with 0.6092 of F1-score. Permutation importance of XGBoost analysis indicates that year, cause material, age, past accidents, experience, and salary are the most influential attributes. This study contributes to society/practice through a model preventing high-severe accidents and theory/technology with novel preprocessing model to perform more reliable predictions. © 2022 Elsevier B.V.
Safety accidents occur frequently in the construction industry, and unsafe behavior of workers is one of the main reasons for the occurrence of safety accidents. In recent years, the rapid development of emerging technologies has provided effective support for the automatic identification of unsafe behaviors. In particular, computer vision technology does not require equipment to be attached to workers. It has little impact on its operation and can process a large amount of image data in a timely and fast manner. Therefore, it is more suitable for the construction site environment. This study starts from the hoisting operation on the construction site of prefabricated building projects and introduces relevant machine learning methods. Early warning analysis on the safety risk of the tower crane is carried out to complete the hoisting operation of prefabricated components. To suspend dangerous tasks in time according to the warning results, relevant measures are taken and potential risks are eliminated to prevent accidents.  © 2022 Gang Xu.
Occupational Health Protection (OHP) is mandatory by law and can be accomplished by considering the participation of others besides occupational physicians. The data shared can originate knowledge that might influence other processes related to occupational risk prevention. In this study, we used Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods to extract patterns among records shared under these circumstances over two years in the automotive industry. Records featuring OHP data against physical working conditions were selected, and a database of 383 profiles was designed. As Occupational Health Protection profiles under study are associated with work functional ability reduction, the body part(s) (n = 14) where it occurred were identified. Association Rules (ARs) coupled with Natural Language Processing techniques were applied to find meaningful hidden relationships and to identify the occurrence of protection profiles being assigned to at least two body parts simultaneously. After filtering ARs using three metrics (support, confidence, and lift), 54 ARs were found. The distribution of simultaneous body parts is presented as being higher in Special projects (n = 5). The results can use in: (i) design a multi-site body parts functional work ability (loss) model; (ii) model the capacity of organizations to retain workers in their working settings and (iii) prevent work-related musculoskeletal symptoms. © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Introduction: Ensuring occupational health and safety is an enormous concern for organizations, as accidents not only harm workers but also result in financial losses. Analysis of accident data has the potential to reveal insights that may improve capabilities to mitigate future accidents. However, because accident data are often transcribed textually, analyzing these narratives proves difficult. This study contributes to a recent stream of literature utilizing machine learning to automatically label accident narratives, converting them into more easily analyzable fields. Method: First, a large dataset of accident narratives in which workers were injured is collected from the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Word embeddings-based text mining is implemented; compared to past works, this methodology offers excellent performance. Second, to improve the richness of analyses, each record is assessed across five dimensions. The machine learning models provide classifications of body part(s) injured, the source of the injury, the type of event causing the injury, whether a hospitalization occurred, and whether an amputation occurred. Finally, demonstrating generalizability, the trained models are deployed to analyze two additional datasets of accident narratives in the construction industry and the mining and metals industry (transfer learning). Practical Applications: These contributions improve organizations’ capacities to rapidly analyze textual accident narratives. © 2021 The Author
One of the trades most susceptible to occupational hazards in the construction industry is roofing contractors, whose projects inherently involve exposure to falls from height. In response, this study used a random forest data mining technique to analyze the impacts of accidents' contributing factors on roofers' injuries. The analysis examined over 600 incidents obtained from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA's) database of fatal and nonfatal accident reports. Some of the contributing factors considered include source of injury, cause of injury, project cost, project end use, project type, injured body part, and day of injury. The results of validated random forest model revealed that the most important factor for predicting the nature of injury is injured body part followed by source of injury. The presented results can be used by managers, policymakers, and safety professionals to reduce the frequency and severity of incidents. © 2022 ASCE.
Occupational exposure assessments are dominated by small sample sizes and low spatial and temporal resolution with a focus on conducting Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulatory compliance sampling. However, this style of exposure assessment is likely to underestimate true exposures and their variability in sampled areas, and entirely fail to characterize exposures in unsampled areas. The American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA) has developed a more realistic system of exposure ratings based on estimating the 95th percentiles of the exposures that can be used to better represent exposure uncertainty and exposure variability for decision-making; however, the ratings can still fail to capture realistic exposure with small sample sizes. Therefore, low-cost sensor networks consisting of numerous lower-quality sensors have been used to measure occupational exposures at a high spatiotemporal scale. However, the sensors must be calibrated in the laboratory or field to a reference standard. Using data from carbon monoxide (CO) sensors deployed in a heavy equipment manufacturing facility for eight months from August 2017 to March 2018, we demonstrate that machine learning with probabilistic gradient boosted decision trees (GBDT) can model raw sensor readings to reference data highly accurately, entirely removing the need for laboratory calibration. Further, we indicate how the machine learning models can produce probabilistic hazard maps of the manufacturing floor, creating a visual tool for assessing facility-wide exposures. Additionally, the ability to have a fully modeled prediction distribution for each measurement enables the use of the AIHA exposure ratings, which provide an enhanced industrial decision-making framework as opposed to simply determining if a small number of measurements were above or below a pertinent occupational exposure limit. Lastly, we show how a probabilistic modeling exposure assessment with high spatiotemporal resolution data can prevent exposure misclassifications associated with traditional models that rely exclusively on mean or point predictions. © 2021 The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Occupational Hygiene Society.
Current Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) and Asset Integrity/Performance Management (AIM/APM) platforms fail to properly aggregate data from multiple Pipeline Safety Management System (PSMS) workflows into a single database which can be queried to inform real-time, risk-based analyses and decision-making relative to profitability impacts. With predictive analytics at the core of an asset integrity and PSMS framework intent upon achieving holistic, enterprise-wide visibility and accountability for Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) program effectiveness and sustainability, this paper proposes an ideal solution designed around the following core functions: • Reframing EHS and AIM/APM in the context of Operational Risk Management (ORM) by normalizing data relative to performance and process-related parameters • Categorizing, prioritizing, and risk ranking incidents by economic impact (specifically lost production), enabling problem solving teams to resolve high value deep-dive systemic problems • Satisfying the need for a one-stop system that has the highly interlinked EHS, compliance and enterprise risk management systems all in one framework • Linking to data historians like OSIsoft PI to “give voice to equipment” for predictive analytics as necessitated by today's digital transformation movement • Featuring incident investigation, reporting and failure modes decision support functionality based on industry best practice standards including API 754 Process Safety Performance Indicators for Refining and Petrochemical Industries, which is also directly applicable to petroleum pipeline industry operating systems and processes where loss of containment may occur • Offering a highly configurable user interface for key performance indicator (KPI) trending, reporting, alerts/notifications, action planning and follow-up. Copyright © 2022 by ASME.
Recently, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) released an updated version of the NIOSH Industry and Occupation Computerized Coding System (NIOCCS), which uses supervised machine learning to assign industry and occupational codes based on provided free-text information. However, no efforts have been made to externally verify the quality of assigned industry and job titles when the algorithm is provided with inputs of varying quality. This study sought to evaluate whether the NIOCCS algorithm was sufficiently robust with low-quality inputs and how variable quality could impact subsequent job estimated exposures in a large job-exposure matrix for noise (NoiseJEM). Using free-text industry and job descriptions from >700,000 noise measurements in the NoiseJEM, three files were created and input into NIOCCS: (1) N1, “raw” industries and job titles; (2) N2, “refined” industries and “raw” job titles; and (3) N3, “refined” industries and job titles. Standardized industry and occupation codes were output by NIOCCS. Descriptive statistics of performance metrics (e.g., misclassification/discordance of occupation codes) were evaluated for each input relative to the original NoiseJEM dataset (N0). Across major Standardized Occupational Classifications (SOC), total discordance rates for N1, N2, and N3 compared to N0 were 53.6%, 42.3%, and 5.0%, respectively. The impact of discordance on the major SOC group varied and included both over- and under-estimates of average noise exposure compared to N0. N2 had the most accurate noise exposure estimates (i.e., smallest bias) across major SOC groups compared to N1 and N3. Further refinement of job titles in N3 showed little improvement. Some variation in classification efficacy was seen over time, particularly prior to 1985. Machine learning algorithms can systematically and consistently classify data but are highly dependent on the quality and amount of input data. The greatest benefit for an end-user may come from cleaning industry information before applying this method for job classification. Our results highlight the need for standardized classification methods that remain constant over time. © 2022 JOEH, LLC.
The management of health and safety plays an important role in safety performance, and is therefore an important foundational element in an organisation's overall sustainable development. Many organisations are now able to collect vast amounts of data to shed light on the underlying causes behind accidents and safety-related incidents, and to spot patterns that can lead to solutions. Despite these well-intentioned Big Data collection efforts, however, accident statistics in asset-intensive industries remain stubbornly high as the data frequently fails to reveal actionable insights. In this paper, we answer Wang and Wu's (2020) [60] and Wang et al.'s (2019) [61] calls for the application of Big Data science to the safety domain by exploring the potential of applying tools and techniques from process mining, a research area concerned with analysing process execution data, to derive novel insights from and improve the visualisation of safety process data. We demonstrate how these tools can yield useful insights in the occupational health and safety domain by analysing process execution data from a Permit to Work system in an Australian energy company. Specifically, the analysis presented here highlights the underlying complexity of the organisation's Permit to Work process, reveals conformance and performance issues, and uncovers resources associated with conformance issues and changes in the frequency of such issues over time, thereby underlining the need to simplify the system. Encouraged by these fresh perspectives and insights delivered by process mining, we hope that this novel application will be a catalyst for further research at the interface between these research disciplines. © 2021 Elsevier Inc.
The Singapore WSH (Workplace Safety and Health) Council states that 6 out of 17 fatal injuries in the first half of the year 2019 are from the Construction industry and that the top 3 causes of the fatal and major injuries are mainly falling from heights, machinery-related injuries and slips, trips or falls. The government does come up with various frameworks to reduce such accidents and incidents, incorporating the 4 main factors: policy, personnel, process and incentive factors. However, it has been found that still almost 25% of the safety hazards go unnoticed by the workers. One must understand that hazard identification at site is a visual search and analysis process which can be hindered by various human factors such as the workers’ physiological and psychological state of mind, attention span, bias and risk tolerance levels. This paper explores the possibilities of coupling AI with IoT to overcome those challenges. © 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
In recent years, many scholars have used data mining algorithms to discover the laws related to the prevention of occupational injuries in the construction industry. Using accident injury records to model occupational risk is a promising direction (for example, predict injury risk from accident frequency and severity). However, the records of specific accident injury data are relatively limited, bringing great difficulties for people to obtain risk knowledge and establish an effective accident consequence prediction model. This article proposes a meta-learning framework called MetaInjury, which can help safety managers share risk knowledge and predict the risk of work-related injuries in various construction industry accidents. When facing small sample data of a new accident type, we first calculate the document vector of the accident description and compare its center vector with vectors in the Meta-knowledge database to find the type of accident most similar. Then, we correspond the meta-features with the best machine learning algorithms on the data set to implement the recommendation of accident prediction algorithms. Through finding the most similar cases and the recommended algorithm, important accident risk factors and accident assessment rules can be shared by safety managers to realize effective risk management. Moreover, specific small sample accident consequences can be predicted by the recommended algorithm. Finally, we verify the method's effectiveness in four different small sample accident data. The results show that the MetaInjury framework can provide theoretical support for preventing small sample accidents and injury reduction in the construction industry. © 2021
With the increasing demand for energy in China, more and more coal mines are mined. At the same time, along with the safety and health risks brought by occupational exposure in mine operation, it is very important to assess the risk of toxic substances in the working environment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate and analyze the health risk of occupational exposure to toxic chemicals in coal mines based on deep learning algorithm and mathematical model. In this study, the working environment and employees of four working areas in a mine in Shanxi Province were selected as the research objects, and the gas in the working environment was sampled. Through the methods of mathematical evaluation model and single factor evaluation grade, the lung condition of employees and the content of harmful gas components were calculated, and the risk index of the area was obtained. The experimental results show that in the range of 0.56 kg/s–3.06 kg/s, the induced airflow velocity of chute increases by 54%, and the induced airflow velocity of guide chute increases by 53%. It shows that the increase of induced airflow velocity increases significantly with the increase of coal cutting amount, and the content of harmful substances in the working environment is higher. It is concluded that the deep learning mathematical model in this study is very effective and accurate in the health risk assessment caused by toxic chemicals in coal mines, and contributes to the risk assessment. It is very important for the safety management of the workers in the mine. © 2021 Elsevier B.V.
The fatal injury rate for the construction industry is higher than the average for all industries. Recently, researchers have shown an increased interest in occupational safety in the construction industry. However, all the current methods using conventional machine learning with stationary cameras suffer from some severe limitations, perceptual aliasing (e.g., different places/objects can appear identical), occlusion (e.g., place/object appearance changes between visits), seasonal / illumination changes, significant viewpoint changes, etc. This paper proposes a perception module using end-to-end deep-learning and visual SLAM (Simultaneous Localization and Mapping) for an effective and efficient object recognition and navigation using a differential-drive mobile robot. Various deep-learning frameworks and visual navigation strategies with evaluation metrics are implemented and validated for the selection of the best model. The deep-learning model's predictions are evaluated via the metrics (model speed, accuracy, complexity, precision, recall, P-R curve, F1 score). The YOLOv3 shows the best trade-off among all algorithms, 57.9% mean average precision (mAP), in real-world settings, and can process 45 frames per second (FPS) on NVIDIA Jetson TX2 which makes it suitable for real-time detection, as well as a right candidate for deploying the neural network on a mobile robot. The evaluation metrics used for the comparison of laser SLAM are Root Mean Square Error (RMSE). The Google Cartographer SLAM shows the lowest RMSE and acceptable processing time. The experimental results demonstrate that the perception module can meet the requirements of head protection criteria in Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards for construction. To be more precise, this module can effectively detect construction worker's non-hardhat-use in different construction site conditions and can facilitate improved safety inspection and supervision.  © 2020 IEEE.
This paper addresses the design of a system to facilitate individual environmental risk assessment and long-term risk management in the Industry 4.0 work context. The solution is based on IoT to provide data related to workers’ exposure to hazardous agents (dust, noise, ultraviolet radiation, poor lighting, and inappropriate temperature and humidity) through a simple interface for employees and employers. The system includes a monitoring device and a server and performs employee registration, receives secure messages from the monitoring devices, shows information about the workers’ exposure, and triggers alarms when the measures reach or exceed the limits established by applicable legislation and/or standards. The system was tested in a controlled environment, and the results are presented in this work. Our solution is still under development, and in future stages, it will include a smartphone app for employees to check their exposures and the use of artificial intelligence on the server, which is expected to enable long-term planning by companies based on the analysis of employees’ health history and their exposures to hazardous agents. © 2022 by the authors.
This paper proposes a new method for single-worker severity level prediction from already collected site images and video clips. Onsite safety observers often assess workers' severity levels during construction activities. While risk analysis is key to improving long-term construction site safety, omnipresent monitoring is still time-consuming and costly to implement. The recent growth of visual data captured actively on construction sites has opened a new opportunity to increase the frequency of worker safety monitoring. This paper shows that a comprehensive vision-based assessment is the most informative to automatically infer worker severity level from images. Efficient computer vision models are presented to conduct this risk analysis. The method is validated on a challenging image dataset first of its kind. Specifically, the proposed method detects and evaluates the worker state from visual data, defined by (1) worker body posture, (2) the usage of personal protective equipment, (3) worker interactions with tools and materials, (4) the construction activity being performed, and (5) the presence of surrounding workplace hazards. To estimate the worker state, a multitasked recognition model is introduced that recognizes objects, activity, and keypoints from visual data simultaneously, taking 36.6% less time and 40.1% less memory while keeping comparably performances compared to a system running individual models for each subtask. Worker activity recognition is further improved with a spatio-temporal graph neural network model using recognized per-frame worker activity, detected bounding boxes of tools and materials, and estimated worker poses. Finally, severity levels are predicted by a trained classifier on a dataset of images of construction workers accompanied with ground truth severity level annotations. In the test dataset assembled from real-world projects, the severity level prediction model achieves 85.7% cross-validation accuracy in a bricklaying task and 86.6% cross-validation accuracy for a plastering task, demonstrating the potential for near real-time worker safety detection and severity assessment. © 2021 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Background and aims: In recent decades, air quality in different work environments has been a major concern. It is clear that the chemical materials used in industries have a profound effect on the quality of workplace air. In 1942, the number of identified chemicals was about 600,000, in 1947 it was about 4 million, and in 2011 it was about 18 million, while the number of new chemical compounds increased from 1,000 to 2,000 annually. Many people around the world are exposed to a variety of chemicals in various working environment. Exposure to these substances can lead to numerous health and carcinogenic effects on individuals. Among these substances, volatile organic compounds are one of the main contributors to air pollution and due to high vapor pressure, high evaporation rate and rapid release into the environment, many people are exposed and consequently have irreversible effects on their health in various occupations. Petrochemical industry is one of the industries where workers are exposed to high levels of chemical pollutants in their respiratory air. One of the hazardous volatile organic compounds used in workplaces, including petrochemicals, is 1,3-butadiene (molecular formula: C4H6). 1,3-Butadiene is a colorless gas with smells like gasoline. Many international agencies and government organizations, including the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), have identified this chemical as a human carcinogen by inhalation and placed it in Group 1 of carcinogens. Health effects of this compound include stimulation of the nervous system, eyes, nose, airways, asthma, fatigue, low blood pressure, and heart rate as well as atrophy in the ovaries. Today, many international organizations, including the World Health Organization (WHO) and the US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), consider the use of quantitative risk assessment methods as the legal basis for chemical compounds. Generally, the health risk assessment process involves several steps. First, it identify the existing hazards, then measuring the individual's exposure, finally determining the relevant factors and measuring and evaluating the individual's exposure to a particular substance. Afterwards, using different risk assessment methods, graphs and dose-response values, the probability of adverse effects in the population is calculated. Therefore, due to the deleterious effects of the 1,3- butadiene on the health of those working in the petrochemical industry, and the lack of similar studies in Iran to assess the health risk of the respiratory exposure to 1,3-butadiene in the petrochemical industry, the present study aimed to assess the health risk of occupational exposure to 1,3-butadiene vapors in a petrochemical industry in Iran. Methods: This cross-sectional study was conducted in the petrochemical industry that produce copolymer ABS (acrylonitrile, butadiene, styrene) in Iran in 2018. In order to determine the respiratory exposure of participants to 1,3-butadiene, NIOSH 1024 method was used. Samples were collected by surface adsorption using adsorbent tubes containing activated charcoal of coconut (600 mg) and manufactured by SKC UK. It should be noted that similar exposure groups were used to assess individual exposure. Sample Size for research according to the proposed model of the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (SEG) and based on to the number of workers in each occupational exposure group, were estimated 150 samples of 50 workers' respiratory air. At the sampling site, both sides of the sampling tube were broken and connected to an individual sampling pump made by SKC and calibrated using a soap bubble flow meter at a flow rate of 200 ml/min according to the sampling method. After sampling, the content of activated charcoal in both front (400 mg) and rear (200 mg) sections of the sample tube was transferred to separate 5-ml vials. Then, by using the optimal NIOSH 1024 method, the extraction of the analyte was carried out by using 4-ml methylene chloride as an extraction solvent. Finally, 1μl of the sample with a 10μl gas-tight syringe manufactured by Hamilton Company was injected into the Gas Chromatography-Flame Ionization Detector (GC-FID) (model CP-3800 gas chromatograph and FID detector, Varian Technologies, Japan). Assessment of occupational exposure to 1,3-butadiene: In the present study, the occupational exposure limit for 1,3-butadiene (TLV - TWA) was 2 ppm (4.42 mg/m3) based on values reported by the American Conference of governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH). In the present study, occupational exposure index was calculated for each individual. Because the TLV-TWA values are provided with the assumption of working 8-hours a day and 5-days per week, if the working hours per week were more than 40 hours, the TLV-TWA value was corrected by using the Brief and Scala model. health risk assessment of occupational exposure to 1,3-butadiene: The quantitative risk assessment methodology proposed by the US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has been used to assess the health risk of exposure to 1,3-butadiene. Hazard Quotient (HQ) index was used to calculate the health risk of occupational exposure to 1,3-butadiene. Health risk is defined as the ratio of chronic daily intake for non-carcinogenic effects to the reference dose. Chronic daily intake (CDI) indicates exposure to a mass of matter per unit of body weight and time in a relatively long period. Inhalation reference dose was derived from the inhalation reference concentration (RfC). Inhalation reference concentration was 2 × 10-3 mg.m-3for 1,3-butadiene according to Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) databank. In the present study, information such as exposure duration, body weight, exposure time, and exposure frequency were collected by means of a questionnaire. The average inhalation rate ranged from 15.7 to 16 cubic meters per day depending on the age of the participants, according to the values presented in the EPA exposure factors handbook. The average lifetime was 70 years. Finally, data analysis was performed using IBM SPSS Statistics Version 25. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation and frequency) were presented. Kruskal-Wallis test and Spearman's correlation coefficient were used at the significant level of 0.05. Results: The mean respiratory exposure to 1,3-butadiene during work shift among all participants was 560.82 ± 811.36 µg.m-3 and in all cases it was below the corrected occupational exposure limit based on job characteristics. Also, the mean exposure index among all subjects was calculated to be 0.198 ± 0.25 and in all cases, it was lower than the permitted level. The results showed that the highest average respiratory exposure was in the safety and fire-fighting station worker. The average concentration of 1,3-butadiene in the workers' respiratory air in the safety and fire-fighting station was 1791.42 μg.m-3. After the safety and fire-fighting station workers, the highest average concentration of 1,3-butadiene was in the respiratory air of workers in the dryer, compound 1, laboratory, poly-butadiene latex and compound 2 units with exposure index values of 0.38, 0.277, 0.256, 0.223 and 0.189, respectively. Mean and standard deviation of hazard quotient among all participants was 10.82 ±14.76. It was found that 60% of all exposed workers were in the unacceptable health risk level and 40% were in the acceptable risk level. The highest average of HQ was related to the safety and fire-fighting station workers with a value of 36.57. After the mentioned unit, the highest value of calculated HQ was observed in the dryer, laboratory, compound 2, installation and compound 1 with the values of 18.51, 16.01, 12.23, 11.57and 10.82 respectively. The lowest HQ in the present study was obtained in the workers of packing, mechanical repair and coagulation units with the values of 0.18, 0.58 and 1.39 respectively. Among all examined units, the average non-carcinogenic risk values in the packing and mechanical repair units were lower than the permissible limit (HQ < 1.0). Conclusion: The results of the present study demonstrated that the health risks associated with exposure to 1,3-butadiene in most of the workers (60%) were in the unacceptable health risk level. Therefore, application of suitable control strategies such as design and implementation of appropriate dilution and local ventilation systems due to the non-standardization of all existing ventilation systems in the industry to reduce the level of respiratory exposure of workersto1,3-butadiene vapors and consequently, the reduction in the amount of health risk caused by exposure to this compound and the use of quantitative health risk assessment methods as a basis for judging the levels of respiratory exposure to hazardous compounds (especially carcinogens due to their high potential risk rates) and prioritizing the various units for the control measures is absolutely essential. © 2020 Iran University of Medical Sciences. All rights reserved.
With the advent of industry 4.0, occupational risk management has shifted to safety 4.0. As a result, the substance of Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) problems and solutions have changed. Various data collection methods have also become possible through advanced technologies like IoT and wearable devices. Managing the big data produced by these multiple sources is now necessary. Many works introduced Big data-based solutions to deal with increasing data volume. However, spatial data were not explicitly considered in such solutions. The main objective of this paper is to highlight the need to integrate the spatial dimension into individual and continuous occupational risk exposure monitoring. To this end, we present a typical architecture of an integrated system taking advantage of the technological levers introduced by the Industry 4.0 phenomenon (IoT and spatial Big Data technologies). The proposed architecture collects, stores, analyzes, and finally visualizes data to improve OHS risk exposure monitoring and better understanding and interpretation of OHS-related problems. © 2022 IEEE.
Workplace safety is a scientific discipline that has been constantly evolving along with industrial development. Nowadays technological progress of tools and materials used in industry, in addition to all the positive impacts, increase the probability of injuries of the operators that use them. Consequently, there are industry standards and recommendations that specify appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) for certain workplaces. Although every company is able to provide protective equipment for its employees, the major challenge is the compliance and control of their proper use. The aim of this study was to assess the possibility of applying artificial intelligence and deep learning techniques for automated PPE compliance, which could help in taking preventive action with the aim of reducing injuries caused due to non-use or misuse of prescribed PPEs. The obtained results showed that the YOLOv5 algorithm achieved high precision (average 0.857) for the detection of various types of head-mounted personal protective equipment. Accordingly, there is a high potential for future use of such tools in improving workplace safety and PPE compliance. Potential users of the application based on this recognition algorithm would be companies which regulations define the type of PPEs that have to be used at a certain working position. © 2021 IEEE.
The reliability and robustness of systems using machine learning to detect humans is of high importance for the safety of workers in a shared workspace. Developments such as deep learning are advancing rapidly, supporting the field of robotics through increased perception capabilities. An early detection of humans will support robot behavior to reduce downtime or system stoppages due to unsafe proximity between humans and robots. In this work, we present an industry-oriented experimental setup, in which humans and robots share the same workplace. We have created our own dataset to detect humans wearing different clothing. We evaluate Faster R-CNN and SSD which are state-of-the-art detectors on two different camera viewpoints. In addition, this paper elaborates on the requirements for validating the safety of such a system to be used in industrial safety applications. © 2020 IEEE.
The new Fourth Industrial Revolution (IR 4.0) trend is driven by the concept of automation and artificial intelligence (AI). However, Malaysia is slightly behind Singapore in terms of adopting AI innovation among ASEAN countries. This paper aims to conduct a literature review of machine learning to overcome subjectivity and bias in risk ranking decision-making. An introduction to machine learning concerning accident risk analysis is presented, and the challenges of its application in Malaysia are discussed. Existing machine learning features were evaluated to identify the feasible application in industrial accident analysis and ensure safety decision-making consistency. This review observed how the IR 4.0 approaches were used in the risk analysis, especially on supervised machine learning. This study also highlights the finding from the previous works on challenges in utilizing supervised machine learning, which is the need to have publicly accessible large database from industries and agencies such as the Department of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH) Malaysia for the development of algorithms, which can potentially improve accident risk analysis and safety, especially for Malaysian industries. © 2022 American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
The construction industry has always remained the economic and social backbone of any country in the world where occupational health and safety (OHS) is of prime importance. Like in other developing countries, this industry pays very little, rather negligible attention to OHS practices in Pakistan, resulting in the occurrence of a wide variety of accidents, mishaps, and near-misses every year. One of the major causes of such mishaps is the non-wearing of safety helmets (hard hats) at construction sites where falling objects from a height are unavoid-able. In most cases, this leads to serious brain injuries in people present at the site in general and the workers in particular. It is one of the leading causes of human fatalities at construction sites. In the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires construction companies through safety laws to ensure the use of well-defined personal protective equipment (PPE). It has long been a problem to ensure the use of PPE because round-the-clock human monitoring is not possible. However, such monitoring through technological aids or automated tools is very much possible. The present study describes a systema-tic strategy based on deep learning (DL) models built on the You-Only-Look-Once (YOLOV5) architecture that could be used for monitoring workers’ hard hats in real-time. It can indicate whether a worker is wearing a hat or not. The proposed system uses five different models of the YOLOV5, namely YOLOV5n, YOLOv5s, YOLOv5 m, YOLOv5l, and YOLOv5x for object detection with the support of PyTorch, involving 7063 images. The results of the study show that among the DL models, the YOLOV5x has a high performance of 95.8% in terms of the mAP, while the YOLOV5n has the fastest detection speed of 70.4 frames per second (FPS). The proposed model can be successfully used in practice to recognize the hard hat worn by a worker. © 2023, Tech Science Press. All rights reserved.
Occupational safety hazards and risk management in construction industry are major worldwide concerns due to its unique dynamic nature of the working environment. Industry injury reports contain valuable information to support the risk control and prevention programs. Systematic analysis of the risk factors on cause-and effect relationship and safety attributes of the incident injury reports can make significant contributions to the construction industry and is an ideal approach for the occupational performance and risk evaluation. A blended analysis of the occupational injuries is proposed by using an attribute-based risk assessment model together with degree of risk assessment to determine the level of injury and magnitude of safety. To enhance the current quantification method, this study quantified risk attributes associated with frequency of exposure, incident probability and potential consequence. Incident injury cases are first collected from a large number of construction-related injury reports and then classified according to the pre-assigned categorized risk factors and a list of relative safety attributes based on the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) procedures and other safety standards. The availability, quality and reliability of the data will also be assessed. Data mining-based analysis is then conducted following the attribute-based risk assessment to further reveal the associations, visualization, and correlation coefficient of risky activities and constructional hazards. The blended analysis is expected to help the construction industry identify relationships on causes of safety hazards, key safety attributes and ergonomic characteristics, as well as the level of injury and their corresponding risk controls and preventions. © 2023, Canadian Society for Civil Engineering.
The growth of the construction industry is severely limited by the myriad complex challenges it faces such as cost and time overruns, health and safety, productivity and labour shortages. Also, construction industry is one the least digitized industries in the world, which has made it difficult for it to tackle the problems it currently faces. An advanced digital technology, Artificial Intelligence (AI), is currently revolutionising industries such as manufacturing, retail, and telecommunications. The subfields of AI such as machine learning, knowledge-based systems, computer vision, robotics and optimisation have successfully been applied in other industries to achieve increased profitability, efficiency, safety and security. While acknowledging the benefits of AI applications, numerous challenges which are relevant to AI still exist in the construction industry. This study aims to unravel AI applications, examine AI techniques being used and identify opportunites and challenges for AI applications in the construction industry. A critical review of available literature on AI applications in the construction industry such as activity monitoring, risk management, resource and waste optimisation was conducted. Furthermore, the opportunities and challenges of AI applications in construction were identified and presented in this study. This study provides insights into key AI applications as it applies to construction-specific challenges, as well as the pathway to realise the acrueable benefits of AI in the construction industry. © 2021 The Authors
In industry 4,0, the establishment of an interconnected environment where human operators cooperate with the machines offers the opportunity for substantially improving the ergonomics and safety conditions of the workplace. This topic is discussed in the paper referring to the vibration risk, which is a well-known cause of work-related pathologies. A wearable device has been developed to collect vibration data and to segment the signals obtained in time windows. A machine learning classifier is then proposed to recognize the worker's activity and to evaluate the exposure to vibration risks. The experimental results demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the methodology proposed. © 2021 The Authors. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0)
Low back pain affects one in three workers in the world and is among the biggest causes of absence from work. Almost 75% of back injuries occur when lifting loads. In warehousing, agriculture, and construction, for example, workers are continuously handling loads manually. If incorrectly performed, these tasks put the workers at risk of back pain, injuries, and musculoskeletal disorders. Monitoring how the loads are lifted is key to quickly detecting which workers are showing dangerous behaviors, so that they can be (re)trained to perform the task safely, thereby reducing the risk of injury. This article presents a system based on artificial intelligence (AI) that exploits wearable sensors to assess the safety level of workers lifting loads. The system consists of a reflective safety jacket equipped with two barometric altimeters, a triaxial accelerometer, and a triaxial magnetometer. The sensors of the jacket continuously record these signals during the workday. The system then fuses the data from the two barometric altimeters in order to detect when the worker lifted loads. A neural classifier uses the signals recorded by the accelerometer and magnetometer to determine whether or not the task was performed safely. The system was tested on 30 workers and achieved an accuracy of 95.6%.  © 2005-2012 IEEE.
This work presents an application of wearable technology and machine learning techniques for automatic identification of the use time of hand-held vibrating tools in the workplace. The proposed system is an automatic recognition system based in a commercial smartwatch that can be used in tasks related to the risk assessment produced by exposure to vibrations that affects the hand-arm system. The system can identify with high accuracy, three types of machine families and identify a single model within a single tool family. At present, it is possible to use intelligent wearable devices for the development of technological solutions that can help to improve the current methodologies for quantifying the effects produced by the exposure to hand-held vibrating tools, as well as its level of impact on workers’ health. In the near future, the use of systems similar to this may allow the analysis of the occupational risks produced by exposure to mechanical vibrations in the workplace in an automated, precise and low-cost way, as well as being part of risk management systems integrated into the concept of industry 4.0. © Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.
Workplace safety is always a concern of utmost importance in any organization. Studies have shown that the fatality rate is highest in the construction industry among all other industries. The construction project managers need to understand the risk status of each of their projects and thus implement preventive measures. The introduction of digital tools into construction sites not only reduces the health and safety hazards among workers but also paves the way to the economic growth of the industry. The present study implements techniques of data analytics and Machine Learning (ML) into the construction safety sector. For the analysis, a dataset with 4847 incident reports during 2015–2017 from Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) database is used. Initially, the major attributes contributing to the incident are identified. Based on these identified factors, they were classified as Before Accident and After Accident attributes, and ML algorithms are used for the prediction of the construction fatality. Performance evaluation of these ML algorithms shows us that Random Forest (RF) has better prediction results for Before Accident attributes, whereas Decision Tree (DT) performed well for After Accident attributes. From a broader perspective, this study will help the safety management team to understand the severity of safety risks faced in each of their construction projects and also facilitate the implementation of proper preventive safety mechanisms. © 2022, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
The industrial sector is the key driver of the society’s economic and social development. However, it is necessary for workers in this sector to have knowledge of and comply with the safety standards of the industry, designed to ensure their safety at work. Companies take different measures to reduce the rate of accidents; they use Internet of Things and Industry 4.0 technologies to detect and give notifications of anomalies detected in the work environment. This article proposes the design of an architecture using Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), where the collected information is processed by Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques through Edge Computing and the implementation of Multi Agent System and ROS technology. The proposed system is to be embedded in the PPE worn by workers, guaranteeing their safety and integrity through the prediction and notification of anomalies detected in their environment with no need for internet give that in some cases there is internet connection is not possible. © Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.
Occupational Health and Safety Risk Assessment can undoubtedly benefit from enabling technologies of Industry 4.0, with the aim of collecting and analyzing the big data related to the occupational risk factors arising into workplaces. In this paper, the assessment of the occupational risk is addressed by means of a multi-criteria approach. Indeed, after the pre-treatment of the time series of the said risk factors by means of a segmentation algorithm, a TOPSIS approach is implemented to assess the dynamic, individual and integrated risk to which a worker is subjected over the time. Finally, a numerical example is reported to illustrate the proposed in practice. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021.
The rising prevalence of fatalities in the construction industry has prompted management to shift from traditional approaches to more advanced methods for analysis like machine learning (ML). Each construction project must undergo a risk assessment to understand the safety status of their construction sites and adopt preventative measures to avoid catastrophic incidents. The purpose of this study is to develop a prediction model for risk assessment of construction sites using ensemble machine learning techniques. A dataset from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration database of 4847 event reports from 2015 to 2017 is used for the analysis. Firstly, the primary risk factors causing accidents are identified and were divided into four: Before Accident, After Accident, Critical Factors-1 (CR-1), and Critical Factors-2 (CR-2). Using these attribute sets, predictive models were generated with five different classifiers with the help of different methods of resampling. The analysis was executed using both simple and ensemble modelling and the latter showed better results. The best performing classifiers under each attribute set were identified. Among the different models, the Gradient Boosting model trained with a CR-2 set of attributes, exhibited the best prediction results. Throughout the study, the application of ML in safety management has proven to be effective. The predictive model developed assists the safety management team comprehend the safety status of their specific construction projects and as a result, adopt appropriate preventive measures. © 2022, The Institution of Engineers (India).
Construction work is purely effortful and the prevention of injuries at construction job sites is essential for encouraging worker's well being and health which is generally overlooked at the construction sites. World's construction industry is one amongst those having unsatisfactory work health issues. A large number of laborers and construction workers have to undergo fatigue risk at their job place. This paper describes the current state of the art of the research carried out in case of fatigue assessment after performing some physical activity providing an insight into fatigue, its detection and an overview of the causes of risk fatigue and its countermeasures. A number of subjective and objective fatigue assessment approaches have been used that have further stimulated the inclusion of latest and advanced approaches for fatigue detection. Although individual's knowledge regarding the fatigue detection approaches has been enhanced, there is as yet minimal research in the field of fatigue detection post physical activity. In this study the stress would be on objective fatigue detection techniques where the acquisition of physiological data of construction workers is required. The study provides a ground for detection of physiological fatigue based on motion capture data in the form of videos.  © Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.
The Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Machine Learning (ML) is a rapidly evolving technology and up until recently has not been a subject of machinery safety. The purpose of this work is to evaluate how embedded artificial intelligence - machine learning can affect the safety of machinery and machinery systems in the development of their applications. This work can be useful to machinery designers to develop their particular applications as it describes how the new hazards, associated with embedded AI - ML, should be considered within the framework of the risk assessment process. The proposed study underlines the new dimension of complexity linked to artificial intelligence and machine learning that could lead to a revision of European legislation in terms of the introduction and/or modification of essential health and safety requirements (EHSR) in the Machinery Directive, in order to guarantee safety levels at least equivalent to those currently achieved. © 2021 Elsevier B.V.. All rights reserved.
Respiratory abnormalities among workers at coffee roasting and packaging facilities have already been reported; however, little is known about microbiological contamination inside coffee production facilities. This study intends to assess the microbial contamination (fungi and bacteria) in two coffee industries from Brazil with a multi-approach protocol for sampling and for subsequent analyses using four main sources of samples: filtering respiratory protection devices (FRPD) used by workers, settled dust, electrostatic dust cloths (EDC) and coffee beans. The fungal contamination in the assessed industries was also characterized through the molecular detection of toxigenic species and antifungal resistance. Total bacteria contamination presented the highest values in FRPD collected from both industries (7.45 × 104 CFU·m−2; 1.09 × 104 CFU·m−2). Aspergillus genera was widespread in all the environmental samples collected and sections with clinical relevance (Fumigati) and with toxigenic potential (Nigri and Circumdati) were recovered from FRPD. Circumdati section was observed in 4 mg/mL itraconazole. Sections Circumdati (EDC, coffee beans and settled dust) and Nidulantes (EDC, coffee beans and FRPD) were detected by qPCR. Some of the targeted Aspergillus sections that have been identified microscopically were not detected by qPCR and vice-versa. Overall, this study revealed that microbial contamination is a potential occupational risk in the milling stage and should be tackled when assessing exposure and performing risk assessment. In addition, a multi-sampling campaign should be the approach to follow when assessing microbial contamination and FRPD should be included in this campaign. Occupational exposure to mycotoxins should be considered due to high fungal diversity and contamination. A One Health approach should address these issues in order to prevent consumption of coffee crops and beans infected by fungi and, more specifically, to avoid widespread azole resistance. © 2022 by the authors.
Overexertion-related construction activities are identified as a leading cause of work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs) among construction workers. However, few studies have focused on the automated recognition of overexertion-related construction workers' activities as well as assessing ergonomic risk levels, which may help to minimize WMSDs. Therefore, this study examined the feasibility of using acceleration and foot plantar pressure distribution data captured by a wearable insole pressure system for automated recognition of overexertion-related construction workers' activities and for assessing ergonomic risk levels. The proposed approach was tested by simulating overexertion-related construction activities in a laboratory setting. The classification accuracy of five types of supervised machine learning classifiers was evaluated with different window sizes to investigate classification performance and further estimate physical intensity, activity duration, and frequency information. Cross-validation results showed that the Random Forest classifier with a 2.56-s window size achieved the best classification accuracy of 98.3% and a sensitivity of more than 95.8% for each category of activities using the best features of combined data set. Furthermore, the estimation of corresponding ergonomic risk levels was within the same level of risk. The findings may help to develop a noninvasive wearable insole pressure system for the continuous monitoring and automated activity recognition, which could assist researchers and safety managers in identifying and assessing overexertion-related construction activities for minimizing the development of WMSDs' risks among construction workers. © 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Nowadays, manufacturing industries still face difficulties applying traditional Work-related MusculoSkeletal Disorders (WMSDs) risk assessment methods due to the high effort required by a continuous data collection when using observational methods. An interesting solution is to adopt Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) to automate the data collection, thus supporting occupational health professionals. In this paper, we propose a deep learning approach to predict human motion based on IMU data with the goal of preventing industrial worker problematic movements that can arise during repetitive actions. The proposed system includes an initial Madgwick filter to merge the raw inertial tri-axis sensor data into a single angle orientation time series. Then, a Machine Learning (ML) algorithm is trained with the obtained time series, allowing to build a forecasting model. The effectiveness of the developed system was validated by using an open-source dataset composed of different motions for the upper body collected in a laboratory environment, aiming to monitor the abduction/adduction angle of the arm. Firstly, distinct ML algorithms were compared for a single angle orientation time series prediction, including: three Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) methods - a one layer, a stacked layer and a Sequence to Sequence (Seq2Seq) model; and three non deep learning methods - a Multiple Linear Regression, a Random Forest and a Support Vector Machine. The best results were provided by the Seq2Seq LSTM model, which was further evaluated for WMSD prevention by considering 11 human subject datasets and two evaluation procedures (single person and multiple person training and testing). Overall, interesting results were achieved, particularly for multiple person evaluation, where the proposed Seq2Seq LSTM has shown an excellent capability to anticipate problematic movements. © 2022 IEEE.
The construction industry is an important pillar of the national economy in many countries, but it is also regarded as one of the most dangerous industries. To lower the rate of construction accidents and facilitate national economic growth, safety control is always the most frequently discussed topic in recent years. In China, government supervision plays an important role in this part by taking regularly inspections on construction sites to ensure control of construction safety. For safety risks such as improper operations or unsafe facilities, the government will take an on-site record and then send formal rectification notices to the contractor to improve the safety condition in time. Based on the methods of text mining and machine learning, this paper analyzes these formal notices issued by the Shanghai Municipal Construction Engineering Safety Quality Supervision Center during 2017-2018. Through text mining, 4,801 rectification notices are first processed by word segmentation, followed with word frequency statistics to obtain safety hazard events with high frequency. Then a library for support vector machines (LIBSVM), integrated software for support vector classification, is used to further classify these potential risks. The result has proved the possibility of the LIBSVM-based construction safety factors classification model for both construction contractors and supervision authorities to better control the overall construction safety situation. The study also reveals that facilities like scaffolds, tower crane, and foundation pit may easily turn into potential hazard sources if they cannot meet corresponding regulations. The findings contribute to a deepened understanding of indicators and facilities affecting construction safety which presents a high frequency of occurrence in construction processes. © 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
In recent years, modular construction has had remarkable growth in the construction industry resulting in many construction tasks being transferred from on-site to the indoor workplaces. Although modular construction has the advantage of improving productivity, the reduced noise on construction sites has just been transferred to the indoor workplaces along with the associated health risks. Studies have shown that exposure to excessive noise on construction sites can impact the health of workers. Hence, to control and mitigate the occupational noise risk, it is necessary to implement a noise risk assessment. This study proposes a framework to predict the noise levels with the support of probability-based modelling and simulating the acoustic conditions of the workplaces. The output of the model can provide the possibility of calculation of the workers’ noise exposure during working hours. As demonstrated in a case study, the proposed framework is implemented in practice to identify the workers’ noise exposure levels and determine the noise risk zones in a modular construction factory. © 2019 Elsevier Ltd
The global mining industry has recorded significant declines in accident and injury rates attributed to the advancement in technology, increased enforcement, and safety consciousness. A goal of the mining industry is to achieve zero injury and occupational illness on all mine sites, prompting increased research into ways to further reduce mine accidents. A machine learning technique known as multiclass logistic regression is applied on a 10-year injury dataset from the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) to determine a miner’s susceptibility to a class of injury and to help identify significant risk factors associated with different classes of injury. The data is aggregated based on injury classification to provide statistically relevant results. The analysis identifies specific risk factors that influence a mine worker’s susceptibility to a given class of injury, i.e., non-fatal with no days lost or restricted activity, non-fatal with days lost and/or days of restricted work activity, and fatal and total permanent or partial permanent disability. These factors include miner’s age, mine type (coal vs. non-coal), experience on the current job (years), shift start time, employment type (operator vs. contractor), mining district, and type of accident. The results of the analysis indicate that a miner’s experience on the job, i.e., the number of years worked in a current job, is a significant risk to injury occurrence, even for those with decades of total mining experience. We further show the differences and similarities between the surface and underground mine incidents. © 2020, Society for Mining, Metallurgy & Exploration Inc.
In recent decades, concern with workers’ health has become a priority in several countries, but statistics still show that it is urgent to perform more actions to prevent accidents and illnesses related to work. Industry 4.0 is a new production paradigm that has brought significant advances in the relationship between man and machine, driving a series of advances in the production process and new challenges in occupational safety and health (OSH). This paper addresses occupational risks, diseases, opportunities, and challenges in Industry 4.0. It also covers Internet-of-Things-related technologies that, by the real-time measurement and analysis of occupational conditions, can be used to create smart solutions to contribute to reducing the number of workplace accidents and for the promotion of healthier and safer workplaces. Proposals involving smart personal protective equipment (smart PPE) and monitoring systems are analyzed, and aspects regarding the use of artificial intelligence and the data privacy concerns are also discussed. © 2022 by the authors.
Compared with other production industries, metal mine is recognized as a high accident rate and the highest casualty rate due to the bad working environment. Therefore, safety production is the key concern of mining enterprises. With the attention of enterprises to safety problems and the increasing improvement of mine safety management system, many mines have established secure big data platform to effectively manage production and ensure the safety of underground operation, receiving the safety hazard information from daily safety inspection into the platform. However, due to the data of security risks are unstructured short texts with the operation of the enterprise, including the data recorded in the platform presents the characteristics of complex data content, large data scale, and non-standard data records. Moreover, due to the lack of an effective text analysis model, a small part of the security risk data is only used for simple analysis such as report analysis and data statistics, whereas more data is stored in a secure big data platform. Thus, the data did not play a guiding role in production, resulting in a waste of these valuable data resources. In order to explore the internal relationship between hidden danger data and the rule of hidden danger occurrence, based on big data analysis technology, this paper constructed a multi-dimensional analysis model of mine safety hidden danger. We analyzed the distribution law of hidden danger in two dimensions of time and space, used the topic mining model to classify hidden danger information, and obtained 13 hidden danger topics, using association rules to mine hidden danger. The model explores the internal relationship between different hidden dangers and uses an R programming language to visualize the above results. The results made full use of the mine hidden danger data and avoided the waste of data resources through the analysis and research of the hidden danger with a certain guiding value for preventing mine accidents. © 2022, Science Press. All right reserved.
Occupational safety hazards and risk management in construction industries are major worldwide concerns due to the unique dynamic nature of their working environment. Safety-related documentations such as injury reports, physical demand analyses (PDAs), and standard operating procedures (SOPs) contain valuable information to support the risk prevention algo-rithms. This paper presents a blended study on occupational risk assessment, in perspective with both attribute-based and data mining approaches. The study explored a strategy of attribute-based identification and degree of risk classification by applying distinctive quantitative analysis on the level of injuries. Data mining analysis further exposed the causality links of potentially hazardous activities and injuries. A conceptual digital transformation framework is proposed to assess digital mapping and future predictive measurements for up-to-date risk factor evaluation. The blended analysis is expected to help the construction industry identify relationships on causes of safety hazards, key safety attributes, as well as their corresponding risk controls. © 2022 The Author(s). Permission for reuse (free in most cases) can be obtained from copyright.com.
Inappropriate management of health and safety (H&S) risk in power infrastructure projects can result in occupational accidents and equipment damage. Accidents at work have detrimental effects on workers, company, and the general public. Despite the availability of H&S incident data, utilizing them to mitigate accident occurrence effectively is challenging due to inherent limitations of existing data logging methods. In this study, we used a text-mining approach for retrieving meaningful terms from data and develop six deep learning (DL) models for H&S risks management in power infrastructure. The DL models include DNNclassify (risk or no risk), DNNreg1 (loss time), DNNreg2 (body injury), DNNreg3 (plant and fleet), DNNreg4 (equipment), and DNNreg5 (environment). An H&S risk database obtained from a leading UK power infrastructure construction company was used in developing the models using the H2O framework of the R language. Performances of DL models were assessed and benchmarked with existing models using test data and appropriate performance metrics. The overall accuracy of the classification model was 0.93. The average R2 value for the five regression models was 0.92, with mean absolute error between 0.91 and 0.94. The presented results, in addition to the developed user-interface module, will help practitioners obtain a better understanding of H&S challenges, minimize project costs (such as third-party insurance and equipment repairs), and offer effective strategies to mitigate H&S risk. © 2019 Society for Risk Analysis
Forecasting imminent accidents in power infrastructure projects require a robust and accurate prediction model to trigger a proactive strategy for risk mitigation. Unfortunately, getting ready-made machine learning algorithms to eliminate redundant features optimally is challenging, especially if the parameters of these algorithms are not tuned. In this study, a particle swarm optimization is proposed both for feature selection and parameters tuning of the gradient boosting machine technique on 1,349,239 data points of an incident dataset. The predictive ability of the proposed method compared to conventional tree-based methods revealed near-perfect predictions of the proposed model on test data (classification accuracy − 0.878 and coefficient of determination − 0.93) for the two outcome variables ACCIDENT and INJURYFREQ. The high predictive power obtained reveals that injuries do not occur in a chaotic fashion, but that underlying patterns and trends exist that can be uncovered and captured via machine learning when applied to sufficiently large datasets. Also, key relationships identified will assist safety managers to understand possible risk combinations that cause accidents; helping to trigger proactive risk mitigation plans. © 2020 Elsevier Ltd
Construction sites are the most hazardous workplace in the world. Occupational safety is one of the high-priority safety concerns across the globe. Among all the sectors, the construction sector contributes towards more hazardous fatalities. Along with a huge loss in manpower, it also causes drastic financial loss. In this study, text mining techniques along with deep neural networks are used for text classification. In detail, GloVe word embeddings with 300 dimensions are employed. We propose the context connotative network (CCNet) for accident causes classification. The dataset taken into account in this research work is referred from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) website. Besides, 5 baseline models namely Logistic Regression (LR), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Naive Bayes (NB), and Decision Tree (DT) are trained for comparison with the CCNet model. The results of this research work show that the proposed CCNet model outperforms all the other standard models employed, in respect of the average weighted F1 score metric. Experiment results prove that using GloVe embeddings helped to capture semantic relationships between words and extracting noun and verb phrases helped in boosting the performance of the proposed model. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
The narrative text analytics has recently focused on identifying an accident process in the various fields of safety such as manufacturing, construction, chemicals, and service. In particular, narrative texts allow finding multiple accident factors and types of accident process including industry, hazard, work activity, and accident result. To present similarity and difference of accident process by categorizing those multiple accident factors shared across industries, identifying sectoral patterns of accidents are useful. In this respect, this study aims to identify the sectoral patterns of accident process using narrative texts information contained in accident reports. For this, the textmining and latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) algorithms are used to extract topics of accidents and their main factors, matched with class of industries. As a result of the case study for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) in the United States, the five sectoral patterns of accident process are identified: scale-intensive, facility-intensive, supplier-dominated, market-dominated, and service-dominated patterns. According to these sectoral patterns, managers and policy makers in the fields of safety take a look at the management issues related to the industry, source, activity, and accident result, considering respective characteristics of industrial sites. © 2021 Elsevier Ltd
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)-related injuries are vexing problems for construction projects in developing countries, mostly due to poor managerial-, governmental-, and technical safety-related issues. Though some studies have been conducted on OHS-associated issues in developing countries, research on this topic remains scarce. A review of the literature shows that presenting a predictive assessment framework through machine learning techniques can add much to the field. As for Malaysia, despite the ongoing growth of the construction sector, there has not been any study focused on OHS assessment of workers involved in construction activities. To fill these gaps, an Ensemble Predictive Safety Risk Assessment Model (EPSRAM) is developed in this paper as an effective tool to assess the OHS risks related to workers on construction sites. The developed EPSRAM is based on the integration of neural networks with fuzzy inference systems. To show the effectiveness of the EPSRAM developed, it is applied to several Malaysian construction case projects. This paper contributes to the field in several ways, through: (1) identifying major potential safety risks, (2) determining crucial factors that affect the safety assessment for construction workers, (3) predicting the magnitude of identified safety risks accurately, and (4) predicting the evaluation strategies applicable to the identified risks. It is demonstrated how EPSRAM can provide safety professionals and inspectors concerned with well-being of workers with valuable information, leading to improving the working environment of construction crew members. © 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
Considering that workers' safe or unsafe behaviors are responses to their perceived risk when working, understanding workers' perceived risk is vital for safety management in the construction industry. Existing tools for measuring workers' perceived levels of risk mainly rely on post-hoc survey-based assessments, which are limited by their lack of continuous monitoring ability, lack of objectivity, and high cost. To address these limitations, this study develops an automatic method to recognize construction workers’ perceived levels of risk by using physiological signals acquired from wristband-type wearable biosensors in conjunction with a supervised-learning algorithm. The performance of the model was examined with physiological signals acquired from eight construction workers performing their daily work. The model achieved a validation accuracy of 81.2% for distinguishing between low and high levels of perceived risk. This study provides a new means of continuous, objective, and non-invasive method for monitoring construction workers' perceived levels of risk. © 2021 Elsevier Ltd
Bayesian approach is a quantitative risk analysis technique allowing a probabilistic analysis of dreaded event with their causes and effects. By creating a Bayesian Belief etwork a model knowledge can be developed to predict the studied system evolution. The aim of this method is to estimate a posteriori probability of the dreaded event, their causes and consequences, and gives a developed decisional support tool for risk assessment.In this paper, Bayesian approach will be experimented on safety data of a cement factory in west of Algeria (CFWA). Accident data of 6 years are saved, however some records are not completed or description is not clear generating incompleteness and uncertainty. A conceptual and generic model should be developed with a protocol for assessing the risk of injuries on persons and a computational module which constitute a decisional support system for risk assessment (DSRS). Then, experiment the model and generate many scenarios to understand and create knowledge about causes or conditions that generate those dreaded events. And finally, based on the results of this research, problem areas were determined such as struck by falling objects is a major hazard at cement industry, and convince the staff not to neglect the instructions to wear individual protection equipment (IPE). © 2018 IEEE.
Workers in the construction manufacturing industry are often exposed to labour-intensive tasks with ergonomic risks such as awkward body posture, forceful exertion, and repetition motion. Due to the increased productivity and increased repetitive motions resulting from improvement initiatives implemented in offsite construction, the investigation of ergonomic risks associated with these changes is needed. In this context, this paper explores an existing panelised floor production line aiming to minimize its ergonomic risks while improving its current productivity rate. Information on human body motion and productivity are extracted from video recordings. The ergonomic risks associated with specific tasks are identified using an existing ergonomic risk assessment tool (i.e., Rapid Entire Body Assessment (REBA)). The information extracted from the simulation model pertaining to ergonomic risks and productivity supports the decision-making process and aids in the prioritization of changes to improve the working environment. © Modeling and Applied Simulation, MAS 2019.All Rights Reserved.
Purpose - Roofing is one of the most dangerous jobs in the construction industry. Due to factors suchas lack of planning, training and use of precaution, roofing contractors and workers continuouslyviolate the fall protection standards enforced by the US Occupational Safety and HealthAdministration. A preferable way to alleviate this situation is automating the process ofnon-compliance checking of safety standards through measurements conducted in site dailyaccumulated videos and photos. As a key component, the purpose of this paper is to devise a method todetect roofs in site images that is indispensable for such automation process. Design/methodology/approach - This method represents roof objects through imagesegmentation and visual feature extraction. The visual features include colour, texture, compactness,contrast and the presence of roof corner. A classification algorithm is selected to use the derivedrepresentation for statistical learning and detection. Findings - The experiments led to detection accuracy of 97.50 per cent, with over 15 per centimprovement in comparison to conventional classifiers, signifying the effectiveness of the proposedmethod. Research limitations/implications - This study did not test on images of roofs in the followingconditions: roofs initially built without apparent appearance (e.g. structural roof framing completed andundergoing the sheathing process) and flat, barrel and dome roofs. From a standpoint of constructionsafety, while the present work is vital, coupling with semantic representation and analysis is still neededto allow for risk analysis of fall violations on roof sites. Originality/value - This study is the first to address roof detection in site images. Its findings providea basis to enable semantic representation of roof site objects of interests (e.g. co-existence andcorrelation among roof site, roofer, guardrail and personal fall arrest system) that is needed to automatethe non-compliance checking of safety standards on roof sites. © Emerald Group Publishing Limited.
This work is an attempt to apply classification tree methods to data regarding accidents in a medium-sized refinery, so as to identify the important relationships between the variables, which can be considered as decision-making rules when adopting any measures for improvement. The results obtained using the CART (Classification And Regression Trees) method proved to be the most precise and, in general, they are encouraging concerning the use of tree diagrams as preliminary explorative techniques for the assessment of the ergonomic, management and operational parameters which influence high accident risk situations. The Occupational Injury analysis carried out in this paper was planned as a dynamic process and can be repeated systematically. The CART technique, which considers a very wide set of objective and predictive variables, shows new cause-effect correlations in occupational safety which had never been previously described, highlighting possible injury risk groups and supporting decision-making in these areas. The use of classification trees must not, however, be seen as an attempt to supplant other techniques, but as a complementary method which can be integrated into traditional types of analysis. © 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Construction workers are commonly subject to ergonomic risks due to awkward working postures or lifting/carrying heavy objects. Accordingly, accurate ergonomic assessment is needed to help improve efficiency and reduce risks. However, the diverse and dynamic nature of construction activities makes it difficult to unobtrusively collect worker behavior data for analysis. To address this issue, an automatic workload approach is proposed for the first time to continuously assess worker body joints using image-based three-dimensional (3D) posture capture smart insoles, and biomechanical analysis to provide detailed and accurate assessments based on real data instead of simulation. This approach was tested in an experiment, indicating that the method was able to automatically collect data concerning the workers' 3D posture, estimate external loads, and provide the estimated loads on key body joints with an error rate of 15%. In addition to helping prevent construction workers' ergonomic risks, the method provides a new data collection approach that may benefit various behavior research fields related to construction safety and productivity management. © 2019 American Society of Civil Engineers.
This article presents an association rule-generation algorithm for mining industrial safety data. Examples of accident data are information about injured workers (e.g., age, gender, work experience), date and time of accidents, and severity level of accidents. The proposed algorithm implements the elementary set concept to generate useful relationships between accidents and worker-related attributes and severity of accidents. The relationships are presented as IF-THEN association rules, where the IF statement(s) include a set of accident condition attributes and the THEN statement(s) include attributes that represent a decision outcome (i.e., accident severity). After the rules are generated, the algorithm applies a user-specified filter and a statistical significance test to identify important rules. The rules that pass the filter and the significance test are then reported in the solution. A case study of using the algorithm to mine real safety data obtained from a selected industry is presented, along with examples of reported rules and their interpretations. Copyright © 2015 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.
Occupational accidents often occur due to a combination of multiple factors depending on the machine equipment, working conditions and organizational factors during work. According to the occupational accident statistics of the International Labour Organization, Turkey has ranked 1–7 in fatal occupational accidents in the last 9 years. Occupational accidents in Turkey are a critical problem to solve. The vast majority of occupational accidents in Turkey are experienced in the manufacturing industry. Moreover, the number of studies analyzing occupational accidents in the manufacturing industry is limited in the literature. For this reason, the record of 242,537 occupational accidents in the manufacturing industry between 2013 and 2016 was taken from the Turkey Social Security Institution for this study. As methods of data analysis, feature selection, decision tree analysis and association rule mining were chosen as data mining methods and were applied. As a result of the analysis, it was found that the following 5 factors had an effect on the type of accident in manufacturing systems at a level of 92.40%: material (the equipment used during the accident), special activity, general activity, place (department where the accident occurred) and profession. For these factors, tree models were formed in terms of the accident type, and association rules were obtained for each type of accident. The obtained results are believed to be useful and are practical for use in the development and update of the occupational accident prevention politics of the Turkish Republic National Council for Occupational Health and Security, in the risk analysis and assessment processes of occupational health and security professionals, and in trainings on occupational health and security. © 2019 The Society of Manufacturing Engineers
A probabilistic risk assessment model was developed to explore the health effects of construction dust on the practitioners in the construction industry based on the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) risk assessment model and the Monte-Carlo simulation method. The health risk was assessed for workers in five zones during the superstructure construction stage of residential projects in Beijing. Health impairment assessment models were applied to translate health risks into disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), which are more intuitive and easy to understand. Sensitivity analysis methods were used to analyse the various exposure parameters and influencing factors that affect the health risk assessment results. The results indicated that workers in the template zone were exposed to the largest health risk, which followed a lognormal distribution of 1.14 × 10−6±9.43 × 10−7, and the probability exceeding 10−6 was more than 40%. The average health risks for workers in the steel, concrete and floor zones were slightly below 10−6, and the workers in the office zone had the lowest health risk. The spearman rank correlation coefficient method and the full factorial designs method were used for a sensitivity analysis and validation. Sensitivity analysis showed that the sensitivities of the average exposure time (AT), exposure duration (ED), exposure frequency (EF) and concentration (C) were larger, while AT and body weight (BW) exhibited a negative sensitivity. Workers in the template and steel zones had the larger health damage, with an average of more than 0.1a. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd
Occupational accidents are a serious threat to any organization. Occupational accidents in steel industry sector remain a threat as workforce is exposed to different kinds of hazards due to the workplace characteristics. In this study, a unique method is proposed by developing a text mining based prediction model using fault tree analysis (FTA), and Bayesian Network (BN). Free unstructured accident dataset for a period of four years has been used in this study. Text mining approach results in finding the basic events concerning each of primary causes. The basic events, in turn, are utilized in building FT and BN diagram that could predict the occurrence of accidents attributable to different primary causes. The model, so developed, can be considered adequate with 87.5% accuracy. Furthermore, sensitivity analysis is performed for the validation of the model. © 2016 IEEE.
There is a higher rate of occupational injury in the construction industry than most other industries on average. However, steps can be taken to reduce worker risk through effective injury prevention strategies. In this article, association rule mining is employed in identifying the characteristics of occupational injuries in the construction industry. Accident reports during the period 1999-2004 are extracted from case reports of the Northern Region Inspection Office of the Council of Labor Affairs of Taiwan. In addition to general factors, several factors related to weather conditions are included in this article. The results show that there are some patterns of occupational injuries in the construction industry. The effect of rain on the occurrence of fatalities is of great significance. Proposed inspection plans should be in accordance with the type of construction and environmental evaluation. The findings identified in this article provide a direction for more effective inspection strategies and injury prevention programs. © 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
As industrial systems expand and complex systems are developed, it is no longer effective to minimize hazards and risks for industrial safety using the technological solutions limited to a single industry. Thus, to resolve complicated problems, safety technology has been developed by promoting technology innovation and convergence. In this respect, this study aims at monitoring major safety fields and technologies through patent analysis to identify the trends in technology development that prevent the risks of various industrial systems. Patent information is effectively used for analyzing technology descriptions, which include the purpose and newness of technology. Using this patent information, we propose the major safety fields and related technology keywords using the following two techniques: (1) latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), which aims to extract the latent topics and main keywords contained in documents, and (2) network analysis, which is useful for monitoring change patterns and relations. Further, the convergence trajectories of safety technology are identified to provide insights about the technology trends in safety fields. The results are expected to enable safety managers and engineers to effectively find relevant technology trends for reducing hazardous factors. © 2018 Elsevier Inc.
Advanced data science techniques have been applied in a verity of fields to improve health and safety and reduce accident and fatality rates. Similar to other industries, the mining industry requires the adoption and implementation of modern research methods to continue boosting safety in mine operations. Text analytics, in general, is one of the essential methods used to analyze unstructured data that is in text format. Using text mining and Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques to extract patterns with incidents and identify insightful information from contents and reports is extremely valuable to produce actionable recommendations and strategies for applying text mining and NLP to accident text data. In this research investigation, advanced text mining techniques and NLP were applied to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) final fatality reports in metal and nonmetal operations (surface and underground) to perform preprocessing, Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), and various statistics to discover insightful word relation patterns in the reports. For this purpose, the final fatality reports from 2010 through 2017 were collected and cleaned. In addition, topic modeling was done to group the reports with similar underlying themes or topics. Copyright © 2020 by SME
Workplace safety is a major concern in many countries. Among various industries, construction sector is identified as the most hazardous work place. Construction accidents not only cause human sufferings but also result in huge financial loss. To prevent reoccurrence of similar accidents in the future and make scientific risk control plans, analysis of accidents is essential. In construction industry, fatality and catastrophe investigation summary reports are available for the past accidents. In this study, text mining and natural language process (NLP) techniques are applied to analyze the construction accident reports. To be more specific, five baseline models, support vector machine (SVM), linear regression (LR), K-nearest neighbor (KNN), decision tree (DT), Naive Bayes (NB) and an ensemble model are proposed to classify the causes of the accidents. Besides, Sequential Quadratic Programming (SQP) algorithm is utilized to optimize weight of each classifier involved in the ensemble model. Experiment results show that the optimized ensemble model outperforms rest models considered in this study in terms of average weighted F1 score. The result also shows that the proposed approach is more robust to cases of low support. Moreover, an unsupervised chunking approach is proposed to extract common objects which cause the accidents based on grammar rules identified in the reports. As harmful objects are one of the major factors leading to construction accidents, identifying such objects is extremely helpful to mitigate potential risks. Certain limitations of the proposed methods are discussed and suggestions and future improvements are provided. © 2018 Elsevier B.V.
There is a major goal in the mining industry to reduce risks and maintain health in work environments. Moreover, the industry is obliged to monitor the risks in work environment as well as employers’ health statuses. The potentials in using ambient information for the purpose to reduce risks, prevent work-related injuries and monitor health in individuals has been explored. Applications tailored to the individual are being developed to aid the worker in mining or mining-related work environments in valuing the risks of their work situation and create awareness in the individual about how he or she can decrease risks for primarily physical damages. The purpose is to encourage the worker to act upon the level of risk for injuries, and upon the new insights the worker gain from the applications. The identified opportunities for and obstacles to integrating ambient information in these health applications are discussed. © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.
The article maps data governance policies to a simple process to monitor oil field sensor data. Oil and gas companies install sensors on facilities as well as the seabed to monitor production, the state of the facility, health and safety, and adherence to environmental regulations. Companies may also install sensors on the seabed to monitor environmental conditions such as flow, temperature, and turbidity. Turbidity is a measurement of water quality based on the cloudiness of water caused by individual particles that might not be visible to the naked eye. Oil and gas companies also create dashboards to monitor energy production across facilities. Oil and gas companies create common operations centers so they can monitor production from a central location. Environmental sensors may be in operation before, during, and after the operating life of the platform.
Association rule learning is a popular and well-researched set of methods for discovering interesting relations between entities in large databases in real-world problems. In this regard, an intelligent offshore oil industry environment is a very complex scenario and Occupational Health and Security (OHS) is a priority issue as it is an important factor to reduce the number of accidents and incidents records. In the oil industry, there exist standards to identify and record workplace accidents and incidents in order to provide guiding means on prevention efforts, indicating specific failures or reference, means of correction of conditions or circumstances that culminated in accident. OHS’s employees are in charge of analyzing the mined rules to extract knowledge. In most of cases these users has two main challenges during this process: (i) to explore the measures of interestingness (confidence, lift, support, etc.) and (ii) to understand and analyze the large number of association rules. In this sense, an intuitive visualization of mined rules becomes a key component in a decision-making process. In this paper, we propose a novel visualization of spatio-temporal rules that provides the big picture about risk analysis in a real world environment. Our main contribution lies in an interactive visualization of accident interpretations by means of well-defined spatio-temporal constraints, in the oil industry domain. © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015.
Due to their size and unique chemical properties, nanomaterials have the potential to interact with living organisms in novel ways, leading to a spectrum of negative consequences. Though a relatively new materials science, already nanomaterial variants in the process of becoming too numerous to be screened for toxicity indivi dually by traditional and expensive animal testing. As with conventional pollutants, the resulting backlog of untested new materials means that interim industry and regulatory risk management measures may be mismatched to the actual risk. The ability to minimize toxicity risk from a nanomaterial during the product or system design phase would simplify the risk assessment process and contribute to increased worker and consumer safety. Some attempts to address this problem have been made, primarily analyzing data from in vitro experiments, which are of limited predictive value for the effects on whole organisms. The existing data on the toxicity of inhaled nanomaterials in animal models is sparse in comparison to the number of potential factors that may contribute to or aggravate nanomaterial toxicity, limiting the power of conventional statistical analysis to detect property/toxicity relationships. This situation is exacerbated by the fact that exhaustive chemical and physical characterization of all nanomaterial attributes in these studies is rare, due to resource or equipment constraints and dissimilar investigator priorities. This paper presents risk assessment models developed through a meta-analysis of in vivo nanomaterial rodentinhalational toxicity studies. We apply machine learning techniques including regression trees and the related ensemble method, random forests in order to determine the relative contribution of different physical and chemical attributes on observed toxicity. These methods permit the use of data records with missing information without substituting presumed values and can reveal complex data relationships even in nonlinear contexts or conditional situations. Based on this analysis, we present a predictive risk model for the severity of inhaled nanomaterial toxicity based on a given set of nanomaterial attributes. This model reveals the anticipated change in the expected toxic response to choices of nanomaterial design (such as physical dimensions or chemical makeup). This methodology is intended to aid nanomaterial designers in identifying nanomaterial attributes that contribute to toxicity, giving them the opportunity to substitute safer variants while continuing to meet functional objectives. Findings from this analysis indicate that carbon nanotube (CNT) impurities explain at most 30% of the variance pulmonary toxicity as measured by polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) count. Titanium dioxide nanoparticle size and aggregation affected the observed toxic response by less than ±10%. Difference in observed effects for a group of metal oxide nanoparticle associated with differences in Gibbs Free Energy on lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) concentrations amount to only 4% to the total variance. Other chemical descriptors of metal oxides were unimportant. Copyright © 2013 by ASME.
Shipbuilding industry is one of the most hazardous industries. To reduce accidents, various safety policies and practices have been established and recommended to obey. Despite workers being made aware of risk associated with not following these practices, many workers do not follow these practices for various reasons such as inconvenience of wearing a personal safety equipment, increase of cost, insufficient working time, and so on. In addition, there are many cases that workers carry out a task or pass through without knowing risk of the task or risk of the area to be worked. It is difficult for each individual worker to know various surrounding circumstances, and there are also limitations in that safety supervisors play a role of safety management for all worksites. Therefore, we propose an automated risk estimation approach to support identifying hazardous zones and estimating risk by verifying whether safety measures are performed for the identified hazardous zone based on deep learning method. © 2019 IEEE.
Construction industry has one of the highest rates of bodily injuries including serious Work-related Musculoskeletal Disorders (WMSDs). The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) identifies force level as a risk indicator associated with WMSDs. Without direct measurement, quantifying the force exerted during a given task performed by workers is difficult, if not impossible. Therefore, an indirect and non-intrusive way of identifying excessive force applied during physical tasks can effectively reduce the risk of WMSD injuries. In this research, a series of physical activities involving pushing and pulling are simulated by the research team in laboratory-scale experiments. The exerted force is measured using a work simulator tool and accelerometer data is collected from a smartphone sensor affixed on the working arm. Artificial Neural Network is trained with the accelerometer data and the force levels. Testing results indicate that the trained model can predict the force level with over 87.5% accuracy. © 2018 IEEE
The number of fatalities in construction industry is the third highest among the nine major industrial categories. The University of Tennessee, Construction Industry Research and Policy Center (CIRPC) houses the most comprehensive OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) fatality case file collection. A review of this database indicates that there is both a lack of relevant information and an inability to utilize current database in a predictive manner to impact the number of fatalities. This paper uses Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) to predict the probability of fatal accidents in presence of a combination of contributing factors. A set of significant contributing factors are identified by performing contingency analysis for each contributing factor versus fatal accidents. The results show that ANN model predicts approximately 83% of variation. Contingency analysis of categorical variables show that some factors; namely source of accident, environmental factors, end-use, state have more influence on fatality cause than others. In addition, a predictive model based on ANN is proposed to gauge the probability of fatal accidents and advocate event based safety programs to support primary goals of OSHA.
We discuss dynamic real-time analysis from multimodal data fusion for contextual risk identification to generate 'risk maps' for the workplace, resulting in timely identification of hazards and associated risk mitigation. It includes new machine/deep learning, analytics, methods, and its applications that deal with the unconventional data collected from pictures, videos, documents, mobile apps, sensors/Internet of Things, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) rules, and Building Information Model (BIM) Models. Specifically, we describe a number of advances and challenges in this field with applications of computer vision, natural language processing, and sensor data analysis. Applications include automated cause identification, damage prevention, and disaster recovery using current and historical claims data and other public data. The methods developed can be applied to any given situation with different groups of people, including first responders. Finally, we discuss some of the important nontechnical challenges related to business practicality, privacy, and industry regulations. © 1957-2012 IBM.
The grain handling industry plays a significant role in U.S. agriculture by storing, distributing, and processing a variety of agricultural commodities. Commercial grain elevators are hazardous agro-manufacturing work environments where workers are prone to severe injuries, due to the nature of the activities and workplace. Safety incidents in agro-manufacturing operations generally arise from a combination of factors, rather than a single cause, therefore, research on occupational incidents must look deeper into identifying the underlying causes, through the application of advanced analyses methods. In occupational safety, it is possible to estimate and predict probability of safety risks through developing artificial neural network predictive models. Due to the significance of safety risk assessment in the design and prioritization of effective prevention measures, this study aimed at classifying and predicting causes of occupational incidents in grain elevator agro-manufacturing operations in the Midwest region of the United States. Workers' compensation claims data, from 2008 to 2016, were utilized for training multilayer perceptron (MLP) and radial basis function (RBF) neural networks. Both MLP and RBF models could predict the probability of safety risks with a high overall accuracy of 60%, 61%. Based on values of AUC (area under the curve) from the ROC (receiving operating charts), both models predicted the probability of individual safety risks with a high accuracy rate of between 71.5% and 99.2%. In addition, sensitivity analysis showed that nature of injury is the most significant determinant of safety risks probability, along with type of injury. The novelty of this study is the use of the artificial neural network methodology to analyze multi-level causes of occupational incidents as the sources of safety risks in bulk storage facilities. The results confirm that artificial neural networks are useful in safety risk estimation, and identifying the incidents' risk factors. The implementation of safety measures in grain elevators can help in preventing occupational injuries, saving lives, and reducing the occurrence and severity of such incidents in industrial work environments. © 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
The construction industry is characterized by a relatively high injury and illness rate compared to other industries. Within the construction industry, the highway construction and maintenance sector is one of the most dangerous. To improve safety in this sector, proactive methods of safety improvement and reliable risk data are needed. The safety risk quantification is the first step towards integrating safety data into design and planning. To enhance the current preconstruction safety practices, safety risks of highway construction and maintenance tasks were quantified and a decision support system was developed and tested that integrates safety risk data into the project schedules. Relative safety risks were quantified for 25 common highway construction tasks using the Delphi method. To ensure valid and reliable results, experts were selected according to rigorous requirements and multiple controls were employed to decrease cognitive biases. The data were incorporated into a decision support system called Scheduled-based Safety Risk Assessment and Management (SSRAM) that facilitates integration of safety risk data with project schedules. The resulting data-driven system produces predictive plots of safety risk over time based on the temporal and spatial interactions among concurrent activities. To test the utility of the decision support system and the validity of the underlying risk data, the system was tested on 11 active case study projects in the US. It was found that the database and associated decision support tool produce accurate and reliable risk forecasts that increase the viability of existing safety preconstruction activities. © 2013 Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
Problems on occupational health and safety are commonly occurred in the construction industry, including falling of materials or person from height, stepping on objects and injured by hand tools. Key of dealing with project safety and risk assessment in construction industry is important, thus, way on doing assessment and liability of assessment are necessary for all professionals. However, it is found that those professionals prone to heavily rely on their own experiences and knowledge on decision making on risk assessment, which lack of a systematic approach and lack of ways to check the reliability of the decisions. This paper investigates the need for people involved in construction to take systematic and effective risk assessments for different trades. 14 common types of trades, accidents, and accident causes are explored, in addition to suitable risk assessment methods and criteria. A Risk Assessment Model (RAM) is then developed for assessing risk levels as various project stages with various work trades. A case study is used to prove the workability and reliability of the developed RAM in the practical industry. The developed RAM is found to be benefit for predicting high-risk construction activities and thus preventing accidents occurred based on a set of historical accident data. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd and IPMA.
As the construction continue to be a leading industry in the number of injuries and fatalities annually, several organizations and agencies are working avidly to ensure the number of injuries and fatalities is minimized. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is one such effort to assure safe and healthful working conditions for working men and women by setting and enforcing standards and by providing training, outreach, education and assistance. Given the large databases of OSHA historical events and reports, a manual analysis of the fatality and catastrophe investigations content is a time consuming and expensive process. This paper aims to evaluate the strength of unsupervised machine learning and Natural Language Processing (NLP) in supporting safety inspections and reorganizing accidents database on a state level. After collecting construction accident reports from the OSHA Arizona office, the methodology consists of preprocessing the accident reports and weighting terms in order to apply a data-driven unsupervised K-Means-based clustering approach. The proposed method classifies the collected reports in four clusters, each reporting a type of accident. The results show the construction accidents in the state of Arizona to be caused by falls (42.9%), struck by objects (34.3%), electrocutions (12.5%), and trenches collapse (10.3%). The findings of this research empower state and local agencies with a customized presentation of the accidents fitting their regulations and weather conditions. What is applicable to one climate might not be suitable for another; therefore, such rearrangement of the accidents database on a state based level is a necessary prerequisite to enhance the local safety applications and standards. © 2016 The Authors.
Construction workers are commonly subjected to ergonomic risks due to awkward postures and/or excessive manual material handling. Accurate ergonomic assessment will facilitate ergonomic risk identification and the subsequent mitigation. Traditional assessment methods such as visual observation and on-body sensors rely on subjective judgement and are intrusive in nature. To cope up with the limitations of the existing technologies, a computer vision and smart insole-based joint-level ergonomic workload calculation methodology is proposed for construction workers. Accordingly, this method could provide an objective and detailed ergonomic assessment for various construction tasks. Firstly, construction workers’ skeleton data is extracted using a smartphone camera with an advanced deep learning algorithm. Secondly, smart insoles are used to quantify the plantar pressures while the worker performs a construction activity. Finally, the gathered data is fed to an inverse dynamic model in order to calculate the joint torques and workloads. The aforementioned approach was tested with experiments comprising simulations of material handling, plastering and rebar. The results reveal that the developed methodology has the potential to provide detailed and accurate ergonomic assessment. Overall, this research contributes to the knowledge of occupational safety and health in construction management by providing a novel approach to assess the risk factors of work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs). © ISARC 2018 - 35th International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction and International AEC/FM Hackathon: The Future of Building Things. All rights reserved.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to describe an innovative information and decision support tool (ToolSHeD™) developed to help construction designers to integrate the management of OHS risk into the design process. The underlying structure of the prototype web-based system and the process of knowledge acquisition and modelling are described. Design/methodology/approach - The ToolSHeD™ research and development project involved the capture of expert reasoning regarding design impacts upon occupational health and safety (OHS) risk. This knowledge was structured using an innovative method well-suited to modelling knowledge in the context of uncertainty and discretionary decision-making. Example "argument trees" are presented, representing the reasoning used by a panel of experts to assess the risk of falling from height during roof maintenance work. The advantage of using this method for modelling OHS knowledge, compared to the use of simplistic rules, is discussed Findings - The ToolSHeD™ prototype development and testing reveals that argument trees can represent design safety risk knowledge effectively. Practical implications - The translation of argument trees into a web-based decision support tool is described and the potential impact of this tool in providing construction designers (architects and engineers) with easy and inexpensive access to expert OHS knowledge is discussed. Originality/value - The paper describes a new computer application, currently undergoing testing in the Australian building and construction industry. Its originality lies in the fact that ToolSHeD™ deploys argument trees to represent expert OHS reasoning, overcoming inherent limitations in rule-based expert systems. © Emerald Group Publishing Limited.
This paper describes a procedure to evaluate the risk of occupational accidents combining SKM (SOM & K-Means) and FAP (Fuzzy Logic approach) to explicitly take into account the impact that harsh productive environments can have on the occupational accident dynamics. The procedure proposed consists of an advanced approach based on two evaluation steps: (1) the investigation of occupational accidents dynamics in a productive sector through the SKM approach, based on neural networks; (2) the occupational accidents risk assessment for a specific plant through the Fuzzy Logic approach, exploiting the knowledge inherent in the accident analysis of an industrial sector to the benefit of the risk assessment in a specific work environment. The application of SKM and FAP approach respectively to the metallurgical sector and to an Italian industrial plant allowed the validation of the proposed procedures. Taking into account the accidents occurred in the Piedmont metallurgical sector from 2006 to 2013, the risk assessment for an Italian steel-manufacturing company was carried on, highlighting how a critical work environment can affect the accident dynamics, and how to correctly take into account their impact during the risk assessment could bring to an effective operational safety improvement. © 2017 Elsevier Ltd
Despite of automation and security in plants, industrial environment is still dangerous for humans and machines. This work deals with a safety in industrial condition. We designed and built a system to detect dangerous situations and help to avoid them. In our solution, we created a method to detect dangerous situations. We created safety scenes and situations to verify our algorithms, too. The first algorithm is designed to protect a human. This algorithm detects dangerous collisions of human and thermally dangerous areas. Our algorithm and experiments are based on thermal camera. We created a graphical interface to our method, which allows better configuration for more scenes. Reached result will be implemented in designed IoT gateway, to improve industrial implementation with scalability. © 2016 IEEE.
Over the past three decades, the global mining industry has recorded significant declines in accident and injury rates. This is attributed to advancement in technology, increased enforcement, and safety consciousness (Friedman, Almberg, and Cohen, 2019). Despite these declines, mining remains a high-risk occupation. In 2006, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) launched the concept of achieving zero injury and occupational illness on mine sites. Researchers have since sought ways to further reduce mine accidents. To this end, we present an alternative means of examining mine accidents and injuries using a machine learning technique known as the multi-class logistic regression. We implement this technique on a ten-year injury data set from the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) to help identify significant risk factors associated with different classes of injury. Analysis reveals how the following risk factors interact to determine a mine worker's susceptibility to a particular type of injury: experience on the current job, age, sex, employment type, mine type, work location, shift start time, and accident type. Copyright © 2020 by SME
We introduce a new methodology for virtualized fault injection testing of safety critical embedded systems. This approach fully automates the key steps of test case generation, fault injection and verdict construction. We use machine learning to reverse engineer models of the system under test. We use model checking to generate test verdicts with respect to safety requirements formalised in temporal logic. We exemplify our approach by implementing a tool chain based on integrating the QEMU hardware emulator, the GNU debugger GDB and the LBTest requirements testing tool. This tool chain is then evaluated on two industrial safety critical applications from the automotive sector. © 2018 IEEE.
In this paper, we have proposed natural language processing and deep learning based techniques for the automatic extraction and curation of occupational health and safety related information from safety-related articles. Such articles typically contain details of the organizations that have been cited for violating the health and safety regulations, safety-related issues and incidents, the location of the incident, and finally details of the penalties incurred. We have done experiments with a collection of 5400 related articles. The end-product of our work is an occupational risk-register that contains details of safety incidents across geographies and time. This register can be further utilized for analytical and reporting purposes. Such information is extremely valuable to industries which see a high occurrence of occupational injuries. © 2018 IEEE.
Based on the theory of system engineering, coal mine production safety has been analyzed. From workers, production process, coal production and economy, coal mine production safety evaluation indexes have been confirmed, and then the BP neural network model of coal mine production safety evaluation has been built. After training and testing the model, the model can accurately evaluate the coal mine production safety. It is of great guiding significance for coal mine production safety. © 2009 IEEE.
Considering the extensive growth of the construction industry in developing countries, the trend of occupational accidents in this sector is growing in recent years. In this regard, developing a hazard management process with a proactive vision makes it possible to identify and prioritize risky points in construction sites and apply preventive measures. Hence, in this paper, a fuzzy probabilistic rule-based expert system is developed for occupational hazard assessment. A fuzzy probabilistic system permits us to model uncertainties related to accident databases and the randomness due to environmental, natural, or time changes. Merging randomness into the occupational risk assessment problem in the construction industry enables the authorities to manage hazards proactively and brings about some practical benefits. The proposed fuzzy probabilistic model benefits from a rule base generated based on fuzzy risk-based statistical and data mining analyses of accident database along with a comprehensive literature review and interviews with experts. This model is tested on four major construction case studies. Through an intensive validation process, the model was successfully analyzed and ranked the risks of different types. The results are encouraging and the model can be implemented in different construction projects. © 2016 Elsevier Ltd
Although machine learning methods have been used as an outcome prediction tool in many fields, their utilization in predicting incident outcome in occupational safety is relatively new. This study tests the performance of machine learning techniques in modeling and predicting occupational incidents severity with respect to accessible information of injured workers in agribusiness industries using workers’ compensation claims. More than 33,000 incidents within agribusiness industries in the Midwest of the United States for 2008–2016 were analyzed. The total cost of incidents was extracted and classified from workers’ compensation claims. Supervised machine learning algorithms for classification (support vector machines with linear, quadratic, and RBF kernels, Boosted Trees, and Naïve Bayes) were applied. The models can predict injury severity classification based on injured body part, body group, nature of injury, nature group, cause of injury, cause group, and age and tenure of injured workers with the accuracy rate of 92–98%. The results emphasize the significance of quantitative analysis of empirical injury data in safety science, and contribute to enhanced understanding of injury patterns using predictive modeling along with safety experts’ perspectives with regulatory or managerial viewpoints. The predictive models obtained from this study can be used to augment the experience of safety professionals in agribusiness industries to improve safety intervention efforts. © 2019 The Authors
Manufacturing firms are facing potential environment, health and safety (EHS) issues of major accidents to cause casualties or a financial loss and increasing social responsibility. Therefore they have to voluntarily accomplish the EHS management system rather than passively with regard to the EHS regulation. In this study, we develop the cloud computing service based EHS management system as SaaS for small and medium manufacturing firms to materialize self-regulation EHS process of manufacturing workplace and to standardize and visualize the EHS business process. The proposed system also provides risk analysis, education/control and continuous improvement for EHS tasks and users can easily access the system on the web at a low price through cloud computing service. Eventually, the proposed cloud computing service based EHS management system as SaaS contributes to the managerial improvement by minimizing economic and physical loss caused by EHS accidents and can be easily integrated into legacy systems such as ERP. © 2012 AICIT.
Workers in the U.S. construction industry experience workplace hazards that can lead to work-related injuries that sometimes are fatal. Reported in this paper is a case-control study of risks factors associated with 4,845 injured workers and their work environments that led to fatal rather than nonfatal injuries during 2015-2017. These injury data originally were assembled from information collected by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics that were used in a machine learning competition, but were repurposed for this secondary analysis of injury risks. Sixty-one percent of workers recorded in this dataset were injured fatally. Multiple logistic regression was applied to model the probability of a fatal injury as a function of the nature of the injury, part of body injured, human factors involved, whether the injured worker was carrying out a regularly assigned task at the time of the injury, and the manner in which the injury was inflicted. Related positively, relative to benchmarks, to the probability of a fatality injury were: falls and strikes; electrocution; asphyxiation and drowning; injury to the head and neck; and working at a task not regularly assigned. Negatively related to the probability of a fatal injury were: chemical/temperature burns; amputation and crushing; fractures and dislocations; injuries to fingers, hands, wrists, and other extremities; and falls from an elevation or to the same level, although this last negative relationship is anomalous in the light of independent research findings. Findings of this study do not necessarily culpable causes of work-related death. Rather these findings identify risk factors that might prove fruitful for further analysis of the incidence, severity, and costs of construction injuries. © The Authors, published by EDP Sciences, 2019.
In this research an adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) has been applied to study the effect of working conditions on occupational injury using data of professional accidents assembled by ship repair yards. The data were statistically processed in order to select the most important parameters. These parameters were day and time, specialty, type of incident, dangerous situations and dangerous actions involved in the incident. The selected parameters proved, due to statistical processing, to be correlated to the observed frequency of four injury categories, namely negligible wounding, slight wounding, severe wounding and death. For each parameter a Gravity Factor (GF) was calculated based on the percentage of injury categories resulting to the incident each of the above mentioned parameter was involved. These GF values and the resulting risk value based on the accident data were used as input values to train the ANFIS model. Trapezoidal and Gauss membership functions were used for the training of the data. The model combined the modeling function of fuzzy inference with the learning ability of artificial neural networks. A set of rules has been generated directly from the statistically processed reported data. The model's predictions were compared with a number of recorded data for verifying the approach. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
The steel industry is one of the pillar industries in China. The physical and mental health of steel workers is related to the development of China's steel industry. Steel workers have long been working in shifts, high temperatures, noise, highly stressed, and first-line environments. These occupational related factors have an impact on the health of steel workers. At present, the existing hypertension risk scoring models do not include occupational related factors, so they are not applicable to the risk score of hypertension in steel workers. It is necessary to establish a risk scoring model for hypertension in steel workers. In this study, the learning vector quantization (LVQ) neural network algorithm and the Fisher-SVM coupling algorithm are applied to estimate the hypertension risk of steel workers, and the microscopic laws of the 'tailing' phenomenon of the two algorithms are analyzed by means of graphics analysis, which can describe the influence trend of sample size change in different intervals on the classification effect. The results show that the classification accuracy of the algorithm depends on the size of the sample space. When the sample size n ≤ 30 ∗ (k + 1), the Fisher-SVM coupling intelligent algorithm is more applicable. Because its average accuracy rate is 90.00%, the average accuracy of the LVQ algorithm is only 63.34%. When the sample size is n > 30 ∗ (k + 1), the LVQ algorithm is more applicable. Because its average accuracy rate is 93.33%, the average accuracy of the Fisher-SVM coupling intelligent algorithm is only 76.67%. The sample size of this paper is 4422, and the prediction of LVQ neural network model is more accurate. Therefore, based on the relative importance of each risk factor obtained by this model and to establish a steel worker hypertension risk rating scale, the score greater than 18 is considered as the high risk, 12-18 is considered as the medium risk, and less than 12 is considered as the low risk. Through the example's verification, the accuracy rate of the scale is 90.50% and the effect is very good. It shows that the established scoring system can effectively assess the risk of hypertension in steel workers and provide an effective basis for primary prevention of hypertension in steel workers. © 2013 IEEE.
Construction industry has one of the highest accident and fatality rates among other major industries, with more than 60,000 fatal accidents each year worldwide. Falling from height is one of the leading causes of fatalities and injuries in construction. Passive protection devices (e.g., safety net) have been used to minimize the impact of falling from height for ages, while proactive warning systems appear recently to alert the workers when they are at risks of falling. To provide appropriate warnings to the worker but not to distract them due to the false alarm, the falling risk needs to be carefully evaluated. In this paper, the authors introduced algorithms for falling risk prediction and evaluated their performance. Injuries records during 2005 to 2015 were extracted from the OSHA database and 1161 intact falling-related record were used in this study. K-Modes, RBF network and Decision Trees are chosen to build three risk prediction models, and the performance of those three proposed models were evaluated using the OSHA injuries record data. The results indicate that the DT-based falling risk prediction model has the best performance of 75% and the top three critical factors of falling event's severity are distance from the ground, worker's occupation and the source of the falling. The delivered severity prediction model provides the foundation of more accurate real time risk evaluation for workers at height. © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
A wireless IoT system was utilized to monitor a LOTO process and shows hope for both making LOTO less burdensome and providing additional accountability for following required safety practices. NIOSH researchers are currently expanding this system, in terms of scope and functionality. The final system is expected to include predictive failure analysis as well as additional sensors to monitor worker proximity to hazards. Significant research will be conducted in the field human factors in hopes of ensuring that the system is easy to use and effective, thereby encouraging widespread adoption throughout the mining industry. The proliferation of IoT devices, in the business and consumer spheres, illustrates that the public is ready to adopt these new solutions. The mining sector in particular will benefit enormously from the ability to remotely view safety-related data in real time and to receive alarms when safeguards are potentially failing. There is a preponderance of evidence that conveyor operation and maintenance is hazardous to workers, and NIOSH will continue working to reduce these accidents through leveraging emerging technologies such as IoT. © 2019 Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration. All rights reserved.
Workers in various industries are often subject to challenging physical motions that may lead to work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs). To prevent WMSDs, health and safety organizations have established rules and guidelines that regulate duration and frequency of labor-intensive activities. In this paper, a methodology is introduced to unobtrusively evaluate the ergonomic risk levels caused by overexertion. This is achieved by collecting time-stamped motion data from body-mounted smartphones (i.e., accelerometer, linear accelerometer, and gyroscope signals), automatically detecting workers’ activities through a classification framework, and estimating activity duration and frequency information. This study also investigates various data acquisition and processing settings (e.g., smartphone's position, calibration, window size, and feature types) through a leave-one-subject-out cross-validation framework. Results indicate that signals collected from arm-mounted smartphone device, when calibrated, can yield accuracy up to 90.2% in the considered 3-class classification task. Further post-processing the output of activity classification yields very accurate estimation of the corresponding ergonomic risk levels. This work contributes to the body of knowledge by expanding the current state in workplace health assessment by designing and testing ubiquitous wearable technology to improve the timeliness and quality of ergonomic-related data collection and analysis. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd
Accidents that occur in the petrochemical industry frequently result in serious social issues. Behind every occupational accident, there are safety management problems requiring investigation. This study collected 349 cases of major occupational accidents in the petrochemical industry between 2000 and 2010 in Taiwan for analysis. Using descriptive statistics, we elucidated the factor distribution of these major occupational accidents. The data mining classification and regression tree (CART) was used to examine the distribution and rules governing the factors of the disasters. This study found that for equipment such as pipelines and control valves, devising high-quality safety and protective devices/ maintenance/renewal plans and pipeline setups/design plans can effectively prevent accidents such as fires, explosions, and poisoning caused by material leakage, as well as employees being caught in/rolled up in machinery. Furthermore, implementing safety management measures, such as worker safety educational training, and enforcing standards for inspections, operations, and risk assessments personnel, has become an important factor in accident prevention. This study suggests the use of the following measures: for abnormal conditions such as pipeline cracking/damage or rusting, hightemperatures caused by material leakage into the inner protective layer of pipelines should be prevented. Considering overlapping pipelines, rusting issues caused by pipelines touching each other should be avoided, and maintenance and repair should be performed to ensure the safety of work environments. These measures can eliminate the risk of work injuries and resulting social issues. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
This paper deals with occupational accident patterns of in the Portuguese Extractive Industry. It constitutes a significant advance with relation to a previous study made in 2008, both in terms of methodology and extended knowledge on the patterns' details. This work uses more recent data (2005-2007) and this time the identification of the typical accident shifts from a bivariate, to a multivariate pattern, for characterising more accurately the accident mechanisms. Instead of crossing only two variables (Deviation x Contact), the new methodology developed here uses data mining techniques to associate nine variables, through their categories, and to quantify the statistical cohesion of each pattern. The results confirmed the typical accident of the 2008 study, but went much further: it reveals three statistically significant patterns (the top-3 categories in frequency); moreover, each pattern includes now more variables (4-5 categories) and indicates their statistical cohesion. This approach allowed a more accurate vision of the reality, which is fundamental for risk management. The methodology is best suited for large groups, such as national Authorities, Insurers or Corporate Groups, to assist them planning target-oriented safety strategies. Not least importantly, researchers can apply the same algorithm to other study areas, as it is not restricted to accidents, neither to safety. © 2012 Elsevier Ltd.
The general problem in the theoretical and practical examination of hazards coming into existence in case of real, complicated industrial systems is basically the approximation of complicated multivariable functions of input and output variables. There is a rather new tool for solving the aforesaid problem, namely the use of soft computing methods: fuzzy logic, artificial neural networks and genetic algorithms. The new approaches can be effectively used for both the risk evaluation of working systems (checking and auditing) and-by using the predictive power of the methods-for designing and planning activities in industrial electrostatics. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Under the background of globalization, the basic function of resource supply and ecological environment is becoming more and more for the sustainable development of the industry itself, and its impact on the industry's own safety as much as other economic activities. In this paper, the influences of resource supply and ecological environment are discussed for industrial safety based on review of the evaluation index system, and the industrial safety evaluation index system was constructed from social safety, economic security and ecological security. At last, the related issues of industrial safety are discussed. © 2011 IEEE.
Purpose – Managing a safety programme and ensuring that change is in accordance with suitable performance measures requires continuing improvement in the support of analytical power and empirical information. This paper aims to consider different approaches and modeling efforts on safety performance evaluation. Design/methodology/approach – Review and synthesis of literature. Findings – Ten major safety performance evaluation approaches are identified including expectation function, risk assessment, statistical quality control, price deflation, engineering economic factor, system analysis, artificial intelligence, and systems theory. Based on the approaches, quantitative and qualitative models have been proposed. The quantitative models use measuring indicators such as frequency, severity, percentages, relative weight and economic gains/loss of safety programme. However, qualitative models employ hazard analysis and hazard operability. Research limitations/implications – Several research questions remain to be answered in order to completely improve and optimize the impact of these provisional safety performance measures. Originality/value – This study offers a set of interesting lessons for academics, industry and safety practitioners by providing guidelines that will assist in ensuring a correct focus to select an appropriate safety performance evaluation model. © 2007, Emerald Group Publishing Limited
Process safety, occupational health and environmental issues are ever increasing in importance in response to heightening public concerns and the resultant tightening of regulations. The process industries are addressing these concerns with a systematic and thorough process hazards analysis (PHA) of their new, as well as existing facilities. Given the enormous amounts of time, effort and money involved in performing the PHA reviews, there exists considerable incentive for automating the process hazards analysis of chemical process plants. In this paper, we review the progress in this area over the past few years. We also discuss the progress that has been made in our laboratory on the industrial application of intelligent systems for operating procedure synthesis and HAZOP analysis. Recent advances in this area have promising implications for process hazards analysis, inherently safer design, operator training and real-time fault diagnosis. (C) 2000 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.; Process safety, occupational health and environmental issues are ever increasing in importance in response to heightening public concerns and the resultant tightening of regulations. The process industries are addressing these concerns with a systematic and thorough process hazards analysis (PHA) of their new, as well as existing facilities. Given the enormous amounts of time, effort and money involved in performing the PHA reviews, there exists considerable incentive for automating the process hazards analysis of chemical process plants. In this paper, we review the progress in this area over the past few years. We also discuss the progress that has been made in our laboratory on the industrial application of intelligent systems for operating procedure synthesis and HAZOP analysis. Recent advances in this area have promising implications for process hazards analysis, inherently safer design, operator training and real-time fault diagnosis.
The U.S. Mine Safety and Heath Administration (MSHA) developed a mine accident database from Part 50 of the Federal mine safety regulations. This database is a valuable resource for keeping track of the numbers, rates and severity of mine accidents in the United States. Epidemiologists and mine safety researchers have used it to perform many analyses, helping to guide research and bestpractices. Database technology has changed from when the database was originally designed in the early 1980s. Contemporary analytic databases, typically called data warehouses, focus on table structure to facilitate integrating many different data sources for the purpose of applying analysis and visualization tools to gain more in-depth knowledge. In early 2006, the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Health and Safety (NIOSH) funded an exploratory research project to evaluate the potential benefits of reengineering the MSHA Part 50 data into a data warehouse environment and to assess the potential of data mining to give new insight. This paper explores the background of the Part 50 database, gives a general background of data warehousing and data mining, and presents some of the interesting analyses that resulted from a modernized Part 50 data warehouse using data mining.
Estimation and Assessment of Substance Exposure (EASE) is an artificial intelligence program developed by UK's Health and Safety Executive to assess exposure. EASE computes estimated airborne concentrations based on a substance's vapor pressure and the types of controls in the work area. Though EASE is intended only to make broad predictions of exposure from occupational environments, some occupational hygienists might attempt to use EASE for individual exposure characterizations. This study investigated whether EASE would accurately predict actual sampling results from a chemical manufacturing process. Personal breathing zone time-weighted average (TWA) monitoring data for two volatile organic chemicals-a common solvent (toluene) and a specialty monomer (chloroprene)-present in this manufacturing process were compared to EASE-generated estimates. EASE-estimated concentrations for specific tasks were weighted by task durations reported in the monitoring record to yield TWA estimates from EASE that could be directly compared to the measured TWA data. Two hundred and six chloroprene and toluene full-shift personal samples were selected from eight areas of this manufacturing process. The Spearman correlation between EASE TWA estimates and measured TWA values was 0.55 for chloroprene and 0.44 for toluene, indicating moderate predictive values for both compounds. For toluene, the interquartile range of EASE estimates at least partially overlapped the interquartile range of the measured data distributions in all process areas. The interquartile range of EASE estimates for chloroprene fell above the interquartile range of the measured data distributions in one process area, partially overlapped the third quartile of the measured data in five process areas and fell within the interquartile range in two process areas. EASE is not a substitute for actual exposure monitoring. However, EASE can be used in conditions that cannot otherwise be sampled and in preliminary exposure assessment if it is recognized that the actual interquartile range could be much wider and/or offset by a factor of 10 or more. © 2004 British Occupational Hygiene Society.
Recent skill shortages in the UK Construction Industry have undoubtedly lead to a loss of tacit knowledge and experience. In addition, clients' need for greater value and better construction services results in companies striving for competitive advantage by becoming more efficient in the way they manage their knowledge systems and resources. Although Case-based reasoning (CBR) originated in artificial intelligence research, it has transcended barriers between technology and methodology to become applicable in many industrial and research fields. Research and applications have shown CBR can emulate human reasoning and decision making processes and as such a wide variety of construction tasks have been used in case studies. Furthermore, CBR applications may cover many areas of a project life cycle, but the extent of coverage was generally unknown. By mapping an innovative three-stage classification method to the accepted model of a project life cycle, past CBR research can be grouped and inspected. This 'think', 'plan, and 'do' classification method has shown imbalance of CBR research applications within the construction industry with little aid to those involved in the 'doing' phases. The 'think', 'plan', 'do' classification method has identified potential areas where the further application of CBR may prove useful within infrastructure management, and in particular within an educational role for safety and risk management.
